+++
date = "2017-12-27T21:02:21+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Hospital Value Stream Map"

+++
... spent the day at the hospital, and ended up wondering about the Value Stream map of hospital in the area. In hospital, you never are considered a "Client" but rather a "Patient". I believe that simple thing changes how employees interacts with their client. The saying is "the client is always right", but does that apply for patients as well? Is it part of the reason why we are referred to as patients?

Then, I spent some times thinking about the hospital Value Stream is. The goal of the hospital should be to treat the clients as quickly as possible, to reduce the time between the client asking for a service and getting that service fulfilled.

The day went as followed:

* We arrived at about 9h30, asked to be registered at the emergency, and got told to get a ticket for triage.
* We went to take a ticket and waited less than 5 minutes for triage.
* We spent no more than 2 minutes in triage to tell about the issue and then got redirected to the registration desk.
* We spent about 2 minutes updating our contact information and then went to wait for our turn.
* We went to get lunch at about 12h30.
* We searched for a drug store to get Tylenol at about 14h15
* We got told that we had to go ask at the emergency as there was no drug store.
* We then got told that in order to get Tylenol, we would have to go through triage again.
* We took a triage number at 14h30 and waited for about 30 minutes before being called for triage.
* We spent 2 minutes doing all the steps in the triage again and got 2 Tylenol.
* We returned to wait in the room.
* We went to the information desk at 17h30 to check if they still had our file open as it had been 8 hours already.
* We got called at 18h00 to go see the doctor.
* We spent no more than 2 minutes explaining the issue, getting checked, and tacking the prescription.
* We went out.

When doing the Value Stream map from then client point of view, the efficiency is very low. The first 2 minutes of triage, maybe the 2 minutes of updating the contact information and then the 2 minutes being checked and getting the prescription. That about 6 minutes of actually doing something for 570 minutes total there, which is 0.01% of efficiency.

There is a lot of waste in doing the same things over. For instance, we had to go to triage twice just to get Tylenol, but had we been checked before then, we wouldn't have had to do that. Other examples are how many patients went over to the registration desk to let them know they would go move their car because the parking time was about to expire. There were others that would get called up to 4 times until they'd stop calling them, probably because the clients figured their problem wasn't worth waiting that long for.

Each of these action is a complete waste of time and effort. Telling me to go get a number takes as much time as giving me that number. Checking that it is indeed what I believe the issue is took less than a minute. Writing the prescription I went there for took no more than a minute.

What if we would be served in less than an hour? We wouldn't worry about our car in the parking, getting lunch and missing our spot, having to go to triage multiple times because our state degraded while waiting, wondering whether we are still being cared for.

The downside of this small anecdote/analysis is the fact that I have no knowledge of what happens behind the scene. I cannot do a real Value Stream map, all I have is the client part, everything after that is just a black box to me. But it makes me wonder what it would be like if it would apply the lean principles.