+++
date = "2017-12-26T16:09:28+00:00"
title = "Relational Contracts"

+++
... read about Relational Contracts as explained by [Mary and Tom Poppendieck in Implementing Lean Software Development](https://www.amazon.com/Implementing-Lean-Software-Development-Concept/dp/0321437381/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=0a598f7b012d12fbd4875ae0a21b88dd&creativeASIN=0321437381). To illustrate that, they used the [T5 agreement](https://www.scribd.com/document/263560367/T5-Agreement) and the [PS 2000](http://www.internationallawoffice.com/Newsletters/IT-Internet/Norway/SIMONSEN-Advokatfirma-DA/Software-Development-PS2000-an-Innovative-Contractual-Approach) Contract as examples.

The basic principle behind both of these is that the interests of both parties should be aligned so that they work in synergy. In these contracts, rather than placing numbers and dates and expectations, the contract defines how both parties will interact together, how the relation will be. The more classic terms, such as target price, delivery time, incentives, penalties, etc., are not even part of the actual contract and are instead annexes that can vary. But, the behavior, how the cooperation will go, how the issues and uncertainties will be handled, is well defined in the contract.

A good example of such contract, is the story of how BMI and Fujitsu came to an agreement on how to handle the call center. Fujitsu proved to BMI that by reducing the amount of calls the center would get, both Fijitsu and BMI would be better off in their respective roles. However, the original contract was putting a price on the amount of call answered; the more Fujitsu would answer, the more they would be paid. However, by instead being paid for the task and aiming to reduce the amount of calls as much as possible, both parties are working together to offer a better product to the client. In the original situation, Fujitsu would have been able to make more money by not being helpful to the customers, which would have been harmful to BMI.

A good contract in software development would align the interest of both parties, by placing the relation at the center of the contract. How do we define the roadmap, how do we validate the results, how do we make sure the knowledge is well transferred, that both parties are exchanging all the required information, that everyone is collaborating to produce something greater than any single party could have done by itself? That's what such contract should answer.
