+++
date = "2017-12-19T18:32:16+00:00"
title = "Value Stream Mapping"

+++
... learned about the lean management method of [Value Stream Mapping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Value_stream_mapping). That method consists of creating a map of the major events that occur during the creation of value, from start to finish. The goal is to reduce that timeline by removing waste, and the map serves as a way to see where there is waste.

The start and finish of the timeline must be defined in a way that helps understand where there is waste. Therefore, it should ideally be starting from when a feature is asked for; when a client requests something. The finish should then be when the client can use the feature in production.

The map should be simple and include only big events. For instance, when a user requests a feature, what's the first step? It would probably be something like "sent to the manager". The manager might send it to the tech lead afterward. Then the tech lead to the development team, the development team to the ops and then it's ready to be used.

At each step, the average waste time as well as the average work time should be written down. Say, it takes 2 minutes to send to manager, then it usually sits 2 days in the manager's inbox before he approves it in 15 minutes and send it to the tech lead. It then sits in the tech lead's inbox for 1 week before he can analyze it for 2 hours and forward it to the dev team, etc.

Once all those steps are noted, we can see where there is a lot of wait time and figure out a way to remove that waste. We can also calculate the total work time over total time and see the efficiency of the value stream. The goal however is not to assign blame to individuals but to reflect on the process. For instance, does the manager must approve each feature requests? What if the tech lead was part of the dev team? Could the dev team handle the deployment with CI/CD, removing the need for Ops?