+++
date = "2017-12-11T19:19:38+00:00"
title = "Seven Principles of Lean Software Development"

+++
... started reading about the [Seven Principles of Lean Software Development](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lean_software_development#Lean_principles) from the book [Implementing Lean Software Development by Mary and Tom Poppendieck](https://www.amazon.com/Implementing-Lean-Software-Development-Concept/dp/0321437381/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=0a598f7b012d12fbd4875ae0a21b88dd&creativeASIN=0321437381). I only had the time to read about the first two principles: Eliminate Waste and Build Quality In.

The first thing to do to eliminate waste is to recognize the waste. As waste is anything that does not add value, therefore we need to recognize what adds value in order to know what doesn't. Put broadly, any action, time, delay, etc., that does not add value for the customer is waste.

The book also goes on about a common myth regarding that: _Early specification reduces waste._ The fact is it's the actual opposite, because early specification means getting every specification upfront, and results in the customer giving more than actually required for now, and therefore the team ends up doing development of unnecessary features, creating waste in terms of code, delay, etc.

Regarding the built-in quality, it's pretty much the fact that a bug caught early costs less. They cite TDD as an example of a practice that helps reduce the amount of defects. They even cite Nancy Van Schooenderwoert's experiance on a 3 years project with a high level of complexity that ended up with 51 defects filed over that period, with never more than 2 defects opened at once.

The common myth they give regarding that part is that _testing is meant to find defects_. The problem with that it cultivates a mindset where issues are gonna be caught later on, so the programmers are not as careful as they should be, and a long process happens with back and forth between QA and Dev which adds a ton of waste. Furthermore, defects are not all gonna be found...
