+++
date = "2017-12-25T10:52:27+00:00"
title = "The Five S's"

+++
... read about the [Five S's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/5S_%28methodology%29) in [Implementing Lean Software Development by Mary and Tom Poppendieck](https://www.amazon.com/Implementing-Lean-Software-Development-Concept/dp/0321437381/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=0a598f7b012d12fbd4875ae0a21b88dd&creativeASIN=0321437381). The Five S's, also know as 5S, come from 5 Japanese words: Seiri, Seiton, Seiso, Seiketsu and Shitsuke. They are a big part of the [Just In Time manufacturing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Just-in-time_manufacturing) as used by Toyota. In english, they have also been translated to 5 words starting with S:

1. **Sort** (Seiri): Sort the stuff used by the team, be it code, workstations, areas, servers. Get rid of every old files, outdated versions, unused code, etc. 
2. **Systemize** (Seiton):  Organize everything logically, in the code, on the servers, etc., so everything has a place and there is a place for everything.
3. **Shine** (Seiso): Clean everything left, the screens, the whiteboards, the papers, etc.
4. **Standardize** (Seiketsu): Add automation and standards so that everything is always up to date and the old, unused and outdated cannot reappear.
5. **Sustain** (Shitsuke): Stay disciplined in keeping everything in order.

Not every part apply neatly to Software Development, but a good part of it does. It was initially defined in a factory context where the Shine part made a lot more sens and was distinct from the Systemize part (although Toyota initially only had 4S, Systemize and Shine being grouped together).

It could be summarized as the scout rule applied to the whole team. Rather than only watching out to keep the code clean, all the process should be kept clean, at all time, always, neatly sorted and easy to figure out for everyone.
