+++
date = "2017-12-18T09:08:03+00:00"
draft = true
title = "TBD"

+++
... read about the Seven Waste of Software Development as explained by [Mary and Tom Poppendieck in Implementing Lean Software Development](https://www.amazon.ca/Implementing-Lean-Software-Development-Concept/dp/0321437381). They consist of:

1. **Partially Done Work**, anything that not yet done and might never be:
   1. Uncoded Documentation
   2. Unsynchronized Code
   3. Untested Code
   4. Undocumented Code
   5. Undeployed Code
2. **Extra Features**, anything that is added that might never be used, such as methods we might need in a near future from an object so we code them right away but never use them.
3. **Relearning**, which is either an issue with remembering what we learned in the past maybe from lack of documentation, or an issue with transferring the [tacit knowledge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tacit_knowledge) between people, forcing them to relearn a knowledge that someone already has.
4. **Handoffs**, where the task that someone could do is handed off to someone else that might have to learn how to do it and might lose from information from whoever handed off the task.
5. **Task Switching**, as we always require some time to get a problem into our heads and we lose time between tasks.
6. **Delays**, mostly by not understanding well enough what we try to solve or not having the people with the answers close enough, so we end up waiting until we get the answer.
7. **Defects**, even more so when they are caught late in the process. Automated tests ends up being a huge benefit for that, not to find defects but to make sure none are caused.

So, if the same people always handle the same tasks, aren't given too many different "urgent" tasks at the same time, don't produce incomplete work, don't code extra features that might be useful and have a good automated testing policy, the amount of waste should be lowering quite well.