+++
date = "2017-12-30T14:57:51+00:00"
title = "Explicit Versus Implicit"

+++
... read about the difference between explicit and implicit as explained by [withoutboats in Not Explicit](https://boats.gitlab.io/blog/post/2017-12-27-things-explicit-is-not/). His explanation of explicit and what it is not fits with what I understood of explicit versus implicit in the past. My explanation of these two was however based on what implicit is and explicit being the opposite.

Implicit would be something that has side effects that you need to know of from source external to the code. For instance, a library doing a side effect on some object, such as this [sinon-as-promised](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sinon-as-promised) library. By doing a simple require of the library after requiring sinon, it automatically adds some methods to the original object. It does not return a new modified object, it literally changes what already exists and cause a side effect on a library. When seen from withoutboats point of view, there is no way to know from the code what it does, you have to read the library documentation, which is external to the source.

Another example of something implicit is when a framework or library uses [convention over configuration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Convention_over_configuration). When it just happens that the framework connects things "_automagically_" because their name match, or that the files in distinct folders have the same name and therefore some magic is performed between the classes from each, it is implicit and once again requires knowledge external to the source. The developer must really understand how the framework is built to be able to understand the code base. Furthermore, when a framework use convention over configuration, a change to a convention would mean a lot of headache to fix it, probably much more than when changing a configuration, where the configuration would just break at that point and the error would be more explicit. (However, there probably are ways to handle that nicely, but I assume it would mean a lot of error handling code in the framework specifically for the transition.)

These two examples are implicit things I do not like to see in projects. If you need to connect classes together, just force me to do it quickly in a file of my choosing so it will be explicit and someone can understand that they are connected without having to search the library/framework documentation. Force me to give the object that will be transformed and give me a transformed copy rather than doing a side effect, so I know I'm using an object with additional methods.