+++
date = "2017-12-12T19:04:03+00:00"
title = "Seven Principles of Lean Software Development Part 2"

+++
... read the last 5 principles of the [Seven Principles of Lean Software Development](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lean_software_development#Lean_principles). 

The third one is _Create Knowledge_. The key take away from this part is that the code is the actual knowledge of the software, not the specifications or requirements. The actual code is the knowledge and to empower this knowledge, the development cycle should be short with a constant feedback loop.

The myth against it would be that predictions create predictability, but as we all know, in the software world, you can never predict how things will go, how long it will take, what the final result will be. It would be like planning a painting.

The fourth one is _Defer Commitment_. Although, it does not mean not to make decision, but it means to defer **irreversible** decisions to the last minutes, and until then, keep making the code flexible to keep options on how things will be done. It would be like locking yourself with MSSQL and using built-in features versus deciding to not choose how to store data and just keep them in a text file until it's time to choose how to store the data.

The myth is about the way we could believe that planning equals commitment. But planning is not commitment. A plan should be flexible and should be ready for changes along the way.

The fifth one is to _Deliver Fast_. The goal here is "to figure out how to deliver software so fast that our customers don't have time to change their minds." (Chapter 2 from [Implementing Lean Software Development by Mary and Tom Poppendieck](https://www.amazon.com/Implementing-Lean-Software-Development-Concept/dp/0321437381/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=0a598f7b012d12fbd4875ae0a21b88dd&creativeASIN=0321437381)). 

The myth is that haste makes waste and that we need to slow down and be careful. It however does not mean to hack things together, because in the end that creates waste and will reduce speed until we're at an halt. Instead, with the right tool and the right process, the time between when we start working on something and when it's in production should be as little as possible.

The sixth one is to _Respect People_. What I take from it is how respect breeds ownership and professionalism. It helps creating a strong team of people working together to achieve goals.

The myth is that there is one best way. That mentality prevents improvement by thinking we do things the best possible way. And it also prevents people from trying to see from the perspective of others.

Finally, there is the _Optimize the Whole_ principle. This one comes down to have the whole organization working in synergy to be efficient and apply those principles. It means having everyone, regardless of their role and part in the company work with each other to achieve the goals. It focuses on the entire value stream rather than subsets of the process.

The myth is to optimize by decomposition, the thought that each piece is part of a bigger picture and by optimizing each small pieces we could optimize the whole, but that does not mean the pieces are working together optimally and local optimization might be negative overall.
