+++
date = "2017-12-17T12:21:55+00:00"
title = "GTD"

+++
... decided to write down the GTD process I'm trying to follow. GTD stands for [Getting Things Done](https://www.amazon.com/Getting-Things-Done-Stress-Free-Productivity/dp/0143126563/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=f5df7b2517b955302e911e71e0a41396&creativeASIN=0143126563), which is a time management technique from [David Allen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Allen_(author)). The concept is very simple, and is based on the fact that our brain isn't developed to remember but to react and plan.

The GTD workflow is in five simple parts:

1. Capture: Note anything that you will have to do as it comes to your mind.
2. Clarify: Spend some time daily to add details about what you captured.
3. Organize: Plan the next action that can be done. If any action takes less than 2 minutes, do it now, otherwise, plan it.
4. Reflect: On a weekly basis, go over all the tasks, to tidy up the list and make sure the small tasks are focusing on the right thing globally.
5. Engage: Actually do the things on the list.

The two key points I keep in mind the most when I try to use this system is "what is the next action I can make for this task to progress?" and "will it take more than 2 minutes?" It forces me to divide into smaller actionable parts.

For instance, I must clarify something for a proof of concept. I must collect information to do that. What is the next thing I can do to get the information I need? Contact person X. Will it take more than 2 minutes to contact that person? So I just do it as it is quick and easy and I'm getting closer to my overall goal.
