+++
date = "2017-12-28T17:19:34+00:00"
draft = true
title = "1x, 10x, 100x..."

+++
... read [The 100x Engineer by Zef Hemel](https://zef.me/the-100x-engineer-6d50a690a866). The concept of the 10x programmer has been around for a while and has been debated numerous times. Every time, what people end up wondering what is 1x? Is it the worst programmer, or the average programmer? Regardless of the answer, the only thing that matters is that there are people that produce value substantially faster than others.

With the 100x engineer, Zef Hemel talks about more than programming, and I believe that is a move in the right direction. He also hints at it being about more than the individuals. A 100x engineer as he explains it would still have a difficult time in an unhealthy team. But a good team would allow him to shine and would build on that.

I believe that there indeed are people able to produce value much faster than others, but those are in the right team and learned the right skills. I see a link between the 10x/100x and the 10,000 hours concepts; a highly experienced person can solve problems much faster than others. Haven't we seen situations where a team of several people would hammer an issue during hours without coming to the right solution and then an experience person would come along and solve the issue in 5 minutes? That person couldn't possibly have solved it without a minimum of experience, and he would have probably spent as much hours as the group did solving a similar problem in the past.

The the difference with that person and someone else with similar experience is that he cared enough to get better and/or was surrounded by the right people to learn from them. A 1x programmer can become very efficient in the right team surrounded by the right people, being influenced by them and learning from the methods.

In the end, that rings a lot like Lean Software Development, which in the end optimizes the capacity to produce value of a given group of people. That can apply to probably any domain and 