+++
date = "2018-02-11T16:03:50+00:00"
draft = true
title = "EVE Online"

+++
... decided to try [EVE Online](https://www.eveonline.com/) again, for the third time. I first tried this game in 2011, and played a few months before leaving the game. I tried again when it became free to play, in 2016 I believe, and now again. The main reason is that I find the universe and the size of the game incredible.

The EVE Universe is quite big. It involves thousands of star systems (over 7000), each with its own planets, asteroid belts, stations, etc. You can only visit some systems through wormholes, which close after a specific amount of matter goes through, and another wormhole opens up in another place.

You can do many different activities, ranging from mining asteroids, manufacturing products from raw material, exploiting planets for raw materials, trading goods, killing other players to steal their goods, exploring systems to find anomalies and relics, etc. When you create a character, you actually end up in a sandbox, with very little skills, a lot of choices about what to do, and a lot of places to go. Players usually figure what they enjoy the most from an initial tutorial that exposes them to many different things, and then they try to learn skills for that specific goal. The way skills work is you learn them by putting them in a queue and waiting, and it takes years and years to learn them all. New skills become available as some are learned. When I initially started, it was calculated to take about 18 years to learn every skill, which means impossible as the game isn't even that old yet.

I decided to start learning marketing, because the way the market works is unseen of in any other game. Basically, each station of each system has a market place where you can place buy or sell orders. Depending on your skills, you can see and trade in other stations, systems, regions, etc. Since each is its own market, the price for some goods might not be the same from place to place. So you could end up buying something very cheaply somewhere and selling at a much higher price elsewhere. But it doesn't stop there. Along with that, there are charts showing the value trend of every item existing in the game over time, the volume of trade, the 10 day and 20 day averages of their value, the min and max. The data can also be exported and many websites have used that data to try and offer a better overview of the whole economy.

The way groups form in the game is through Corporations, which are player made associations, with CEOs and their own accounts, and voting and shares. The more skills you gain in management, the bigger the Corporation can be. Many Corporations can form an Alliance together, the biggest of which counts 35K characters. Many Corporations are specializing in one aspect of the game, and work with other Corporations to achieve bigger goals.

Some other things that are very impressive in my opinion is there is a 24/7 fan radio running, with its own in-game channel. A radio channel dedicated to the game. It proves the length of dedication of some of its player base. Another very impressive thing, which demonstrates the care of developer of the game, CCP, is that they have what is called [The Council of Stellar Management](https://community.eveonline.com/community/csm/). It is a council of 10 players elected by players that work with the developer to focus their efforts on what is best for the community. And when I say work with CCP, it's work such as scrum meetings, or being flown to the developer multiple times a year.

I'm only scratching the surface of what EVE has to offer. It's a player run game with a lot of possibilities with no end game goal other than those that you fix yourself. It's very immersive and can feel like a second job to some.