+++
date = "2018-01-01T12:00:24Z"
title = "Rewards and Motivations"

+++
... treated myself with a reward for sticking to this daily routine up to January 1st. The reward I chose is simply a domain name, [todayi.life](https://www.todayi.life/). I quickly wanted to get a domain name for this endeavor but would I have failed, the domain name would have been a waste of money. Therefore, I decided that if I could stick to it long enough, the domain name would make sens.

Now that I have it, I was thinking about what will keep me motivated other than saying "I did it". I want to reach 100 days in a row. I'm up to 29 including this one. That's 71 left. 71 possible failure at this thing, and the reward is to say that I did it 100 days in a row? That couldn't possibly cut it knowing how I usually am.

I thought about how I could keep the concept of reward as a good carrot. How were we being rewarded as kids? I figured I might be able to manipulate myself to keep going at it so I can give myself the right reward. There are certainly things I'd like to have but I can live without; the things you want to buy but you're not convinced it's a good idea to put the money in.

So I figured I could be doing just that, setting myself good enough goals with "_toy_" rewards, just as if I were a kid, and the reward would be something I wouldn't buy whenever in the first place. One thing I've been wanting is a Google Home. Another is a video game controller for my PC. Both can be bought for not too much money, but still enough as to represent a good reward. I wouldn't buy a Google Home or a video game controller right away, and I can live without either of them. They would just be a bonus.

The next question would be the pace. Every how many posts would I get one? Would I get one each month? That would probably be a little too much. What about every 100 days? That might be the right number. So I'll try to keep this carrot on a stick until I reach 100 days in a row, no skip. We'll see how it last.
