+++
date = "2018-03-24T19:22:21+00:00"
title = "Experiencing Versus Remembering Self"

+++
... listened to the [Think Fast with Daniel Kahneman](https://www.npr.org/2018/03/12/592986190/daniel-kahneman-on-misery-memory-and-our-understanding-of-the-mind) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, they meet with Daniel Kahneman, Nobel prize winner and a huge inspiration for several studies covered by the Hidden Brain podcast.

In the episode, Daniel Kahneman talks about how the brain works in term of judgment. He explains that we aren't really able to predict the future and judge things. Our brain only classifies and notices patterns from a chaotic world and makes prediction out of that, which is hardly reliable. Most of the time, they are right, otherwise humanity wouldn't be there in this form.

There are two parts to how the brain works regarding that : the experiencing self and the remembering self. The experiencing self is the one that is in the moment enjoying what's happening. The remembering self is what the brain keeps from experiences and remembers. He explains that the remembering self is the one making decisions, and what it remembers depends on specific things that happen to the experiencing self.

To show the discrepancy, they conducted a study with colonoscopy patients and their memory of the event. For some patient, they would remove the tube right as the colonoscopy was finished, near the peak of the pain for the operation. For some other patients, they would leave the tube at least a minute after the procedure was done before removing it, leaving some time between the peak of pain and the end of the operation. Turns out that in the second group, although they suffered for a longer period of time, they had a less worst memory than those who had the tube removed quickly. That's because there are two things that the remembering self keeps, the peak of the pain and how it felt once it was done. Since the peak of the pain was still very high when the procedure was entirely over in the first group, the memory was worst. In the second group, the peak of pain had the time to lower a lot and the patients remembered suffering less than the patients from the first group.

Another fact regarding the remembering self and how strong it is regarding decision is from another study where they put this hypothetical process : the people will go on vacation and once back, they'll get all their vacation pictures destroyed and their memory erased. They then asked those people whether that would change their decision of going on vacation. For several of them it did, because they go on vacation to create memory much more than they go on vacation for the live experience.

The same goes for parenting. They asked parents whether they were happy to have kids (remembering self answering). But then they'd periodically ask those same parents how they felt regarding their children throughout their days (experiencing self answering) and noticed that they didn't seem as happy as they claimed initially. That's because people remember the peak moments, and these peak moments are what make it worthwhile. Most of what we experience, the remembering self discards because it is not a peak moment.

He also concludes that people try to maximize the happiness of the remembering self rather than the experiencing self, although focusing on the experiencing self would make us more social, less ambitious, spend more time with people we like and enjoy, etc. And that's against our will, it's because of the nature of the brain, how the remembering self is stronger.