+++
date = "2018-01-03T18:41:43+00:00"
draft = true
title = "TBD"

+++
... listened to the [You 2.0: Deep Work episode of the Hidden Brain podcast](https://www.npr.org/2017/07/25/539092670/you-2-0-the-value-of-deep-work-in-an-age-of-distraction). In this episode, they talk about Deep Work with [Cal Newport, author of the book Deep Work](https://www.amazon.ca/Deep-Work-Focused-Success-Distracted/dp/1455586692).

Cal Newport explains that most people, even when they believe they are not multitasking, are in fact not being focused, as they are doing a lot of "_just checks_" every now and then. "I'll just check my inbox real quick." He explains that those brief checks have a much more negative impact than we think. He cites a [study by Sophie Leroy](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0749597809000399) in which that negative impact is called "Attention Residue", and says that this attention residue takes much longer than we would expect to clear out. It only takes a quick glance to cause that attention residue.

He also says that as he was writing the book, he learned from many sources that people engaged in Deep Work, which is long period of focused, concentrated work, are more satisfied about their work. I really believe it is true, although I only have anecdotes to defend my points. I know the days I come home and feel the most accomplished and days where I was able to focus on a problem and code all day. On the other hand, days where I'm clearing through lists of things to do, talking with X and Y to try to get something started, I start a bit of this and that because I have so many things to do, I never have that same feeling of accomplishment.

Easy and convenient to feel busy with email and notification. It comes at the cost of effectiveness and productivity. We are using our brain to get information to produce value and should optimize the use of our brain. It's the main capital resource.

Deep Work makes people happier. Deep Living is good living. The larger portion of time spent focusing on work made people be more satisfied by their work.

In manual work, Deep Work is obvious but the feedback is direct and obvious. It is not so obvious with modern work.

compared to mindfulness and flow. With mindfulness is similar about the fact that you need to train to get better at it. It's a skill to be practiced.

He made it in a schedule 4 weeks in advance. He also kept a tally of how many hours have been spent un-interrupted.

He does a shutdown mantra to stop working "Schedule shutdown complete" and cut ties with work when he goes home.

We transformed ourself in information router, like computer, where we take inputs and produce outputs with distraction.

constantly having my thoughts switching

could not stick to meditation

not doing well enough with pomodoro/52/17

having a feeling of not being productive while rationaly I am

compared to GTD

should it be scheduled