+++
date = "2018-01-19T19:18:43+00:00"
title = "Resolution and Self-Distancing"

+++
... listened the the [Resolution](https://www.npr.org/2016/01/18/463220298/why-its-not-too-late-to-make-a-new-years-resolution) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. On this episode, they talked about how people fail to stick to resolutions when a new year begins. Eventually, they came to talk about strategies people could use to better stick to their resolution and succeed. One of them was saying to have inner thoughts at second or third person rather than the first person, which is what stuck in my brain.

It is based on [several studies](http://selfcontrol.psych.lsa.umich.edu/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/KrossJ_Pers_Soc_Psychol2014Self-talk_as_a_regulatory_mechanism_How_you_do_it_matters.pdf) that proved that having self-reflection at the second or third person helps taking a step back in the reflection, basically self-distancing from the thought. They proved that simply using different pronouns in the thought process helped with anxiety and performance in challenging situations.

An example of how they studied it is by asking participants to think "Why do I feel this way?" versus "Why do Guillaume feel this way?" I'm wondering how much of an impact it can have on reflections we have about our lives. Could we be able to take more rational decisions, with less feelings involved? We often see people making decisions and wonder how they could have made such decision as the other options were obviously better alternatives, but often the decision makers are way too close the situation to have the required distance about the decision to make. Would they have had a better judgment thinking at the third person?

I'm interested in trying out whether it can have an impact, although I probably already am biased and might not be able to clearly see the difference between before and after. But maybe it could become a technique to better evaluate a situation and asses options offered to me. I will try to keep it in mind as life goes on, and see whether I can eventually think about myself at the third person.