+++
date = "2018-01-24T19:17:18+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Willpower"

+++
... read the Starbucks and the Habit of Success chapter from [The Power of Habit](https://www.amazon.com/Power-Habit-What-Life-Business/dp/081298160X) book by Charles Duhigg. In this chapter, they talk about the concept of [Willpower](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-control).

In the 1960s, an experiment was conducted with children of about 4 years old who were exposed to a single marshmallow. They were told not to eat it and that they would get a second one if they succeeded. About 30% of the children did succeed. Several years later, they found those same children and checked how they were succeeding in life. The ones that succeeded were almost much more successful in general, studying more, achieving higher grades, being better in general. It demonstrated that willpower had a very important impact on people life.

By the 1980s, a theory emerged stating that willpower could be learned. It was believed to be a skill that could be taught. However, Mark Muraven wasn't agreeing that it was a skill. You can use a skill whenever once you've learned it, but willpower was different.

It lead to a study in which they placed a bowl of freshly baked cookies and a bowl of radish. They were telling some students to eat only the cookies, and some others to only eat the radish. After doing so for a while, they were then told they had to do a puzzle and could ring a bell once they were tired of trying. The group that had to eat radish did awfully worse than the group that had to eat the cookies. From that study, they concluded willpower wasn't a skill, but rather a limited resource we have over the course of a day, just like muscle.

Other experiments followed, trying to figure out if you could get better at it, if you could lift weight for you willpower. Those studies involved forcing people to use their willpower over a very specific exercise, be it physical or mental, and following their evolution over months. All of them got better at anything that required willpower on their day to day.

One method that was used in a hospital to help old people who had hip surgery. They had to use their willpower to exercise to heal faster after the surgery. They were given a book with many blank page with a single incomplete sentence: My goals for this week are... The patients that took the time to write down the actions they would take, doing exercises while going to the bathroom, walking to the bus stop, etc., ended getting better almost twice as fast as those who didn't write anything. All they wrote were plans, plans when their willpower would be tested, and plans for how they would behave. They were training themselves ahead of time on what action they would take given a situation, and were then behaving according to plan. They were seeing cues ahead of time and planing routines to get their rewards.

That is also how Starbucks has been going about with his employees. One of the things they are asked in their training is plan for bad situations with customers. When someone complains he didn't get the right coffee, what do you do? They write down their plans in a book they are given on their first few days of work. They are also given guidelines on how to react, such as their LATTE method (Listen, Acknowledge, Take action, Thanks and Explain).