+++
date = "2018-04-09T18:43:02+00:00"
title = "RSS/Atom News Feeds"

+++
... read a bit about RSS and Atom feeds. They have been around for a long time, but I never really paid attention to the problem they solve and whether they can be useful. Basically, they are feeds of news from different websites. For instance, you can subscribe to this website RSS feed and see whenever something new appears.

The concept is rather simple : a website creates an XML file containing a list of all the stories from the website. I don't know the exact format and how it's formed. But from what I understand, readers then can see when there is something new when they query the website again. They have to keep some data to know whether something new was added to a feed and whether something was removed. It's works similarly for both RSS and Atom feeds.

The interesting part really about that is rather than going on a website that regulates what is displayed, such as Facebook or Google+, you end up having a decentralized feed of information. It means no filter, no censor, no bias in the feed of news that you get. It's a very interesting thing because the death of Facebook would mean the end of all feeds consumed through Facebook, but the end of an RSS feed means nothing to all other feeds.

The issue with those feeds, and why they don't seem to be popular is that you only get data, you cannot push data. You cannot easily share with your friends, or add your comment on what you are reading. That might seem rather simple but social platforms are social first, and only then are they used to transmit news. Reading the same news and showing that your opinion is similar to your friends opinions is a way to prove that you are part of that social group. And even if it's not to express you opinion, sometimes it's nice to see other people opinion. For instance, I like reading comments on hacker news because there usually are some people that know the subject better than I do that can comment on it to dumb it down.

Nevermind the RSS feed upsides and downsides, one thing that is important to use such feeds is to have a good enough reader. For instance, news websites can often publish over a thousand stories a day. You don't want to skim through that feed all the time, that's just way to much. So you still need to get the whole feed, but you want to filter out subjects that are relevant to you. Feeds aren't really good for that, so the readers have to figure out a way to handle that. It comes down to reader usability. I haven't found any that interests me, but I believe it wouldn't be to difficult to build one. So I'm keeping that in mind, as building a news reader might not be too difficult and would be an interesting desktop application to develop.