+++
date = "2018-04-05T20:54:13+00:00"
title = "The Plan 1.6"

+++
... didn't do much again. However, today is the day I said I would get back to The Plan after a 2 weeks break. Rather than starting right away with the new version, I will take the time to lay out what The Plan will be from now on and when I will start it.

First of all, I said I would take 2 weeks off of The Plan and see how it goes with the routine I tried to create. They basically all fell off. The apartment is messy again, I haven't meditated in over a week, I hardly read, I spent a lot of time playing video games, watching TV Shows and YouTube videos, and basically doing nothing. Even in terms of money, I haven't spent much doing keeping the books tight.

My impression on why this happened is three parts. First, without the initial triggers, it made it less likely that the habits would also trigger. By not sticking to what I did for several weeks, I didn't not get the trigger to start doing any of those things. I had my previous old triggers instead, and did the old habits. Second, without the daily updates, I wasn't looking back on my days and seeing what I could have done better. I wasn't either sticking to a list of things to do, I would just do anything. Third, with all those new habits I tried to instill at once, I got tired and didn't have the willpower to keep going any longer.

The biggest downside I see is that I have been learning less over the past 2 weeks than I did in the three months before then. It makes what I note much less useful and interesting. Nevertheless, I still write down things, but it slowly transformed to things I think about rather than things I learned. I preferred it with things I learned as it really had more value.

So, starting next Sunday evening, I will make sure to have at least 8 hours of sleep, going to bed between 9:30 and 10:00 PM so I can wake up early. I will just take a shower, pack a lunch and a breakfast, and head to work. There I will work through my day like I always do. If I find the time after my lunch, I will do a short meditation. If not, I will try to do it later. Once back home, I will do a small round of cleaning, minimum 15 minutes, maximum 30 minutes, then either diner or an hour of learning something. Then, after both learning and diner is over, I will take the time to write this down. Considering a normal work day length, that leaves me with about 2 to 3 hours of whatever I want. 

About the learning stuff, I will force myself to focus on that as if I were still in school. Like reading for an hour, or working on a language for an hour, etc. This way, I'll dedicate time to learn something worth writing about without going on too many different subject, as when I read and listened to podcast on the same day, both subjects potentially different leading to different knowledge. I will also try to focus on the same subject for several days/weeks. For instance, if I want to learn a new language, say Korean, the concept would be to work one hour on this everyday.