+++
date = "2018-04-08T19:07:30+00:00"
title = "Service Currying Pattern"

+++
... tried a currying pattern in JavaScript. It was inspired from [Elm lang](http://elm-lang.org/) that has a very interesting way to handle functions which makes currying as easy as omitting parameters in a function call. Since I'm using JavaScript, I could have avoided the currying pattern I tried, but the point is also to try and ditch the classes and object oriented aspects of the language when not needed.

The way Elm lang handles functions, from what I remember from the only time I tried it, is that functions can only have 1 parameter internally, but when you define a function with multiple parameters, it's actually creating a function of a function of a function... Basically, when writing this first method, it is internally understood as this second method :

    // Elm function
    firstMethod param1 param2 param 3 =
        true
    
    // JavaScript equivalent
    function secondMethod(param1) {
        return function(param2) {
            return function(param3) {
                return true
            }
        }
    }

What that does it whenever you call the method in Elm lang, you call a method of a method of a method. Elm doesn't have parentheses for function calls and function signature, which doesn't create the same annoyance you get from this pattern in JavaScript.

    // Elm function call
    firstMethod 1 2 3
    
    // JavaScript equivalent
    secondMethod(1)(2)(3);

This concept isn't very clean to write in JavaScript, but what it does in Elm is you can easily curry any function by simply omitting a parameter. It makes currying very simple and powerful.

    let thirdMethod = firstMethod 1 2
    thirdMethod 3
    
    // is equivalent to
    
    firstMethod 1 2 3

I had to create methods that would require the database name. I could have gone the OO way and create a class that requires the database name in the constructor, but instead I went the functional way by currying methods and using another function to wrap that currying. It went to something like this.

    // service.js
    const database = require('./database');
    
    module.exports = database_name => {
    	add: database.add(database_name),
        update: database.update(database_name),
        delete: database.delete(database_name),
    };
    
    // database.js
    function add(database_name) {
        return data => {
        	// ...
        };
    }
    
    function update(database_name) {
        return data => {
        	// ...
        };
    }
    
    function delete(database_name) {
    	return data => {
        	// ...
        };
    }
    
    module.exports = { add, update, delete };

It is a little more verbose than I would like, but it makes it possible to avoid creating a class. I'll be able to then easily get the connection to the database in question from any function because they will always have the database name in their context. It also makes it easier to test the methods since you can simply call the functions without having to constantly instanciate the class. I can't say whether this kind of pattern will make it any harder to maintain or understand the code in the long run, but from what I get reading about functional programming, it probably won't have much negative impacts.