+++
date = "2018-01-22T19:42:03+00:00"
title = "Small Wins"

+++
... started reading the Keystone Habits, Or The Ballad of Paul O'Neil chapter in [The Power of Habit](https://www.amazon.com/Power-Habit-What-Life-Business/dp/081298160X/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=98a468dcb70061e9a5f26c9e7b3ce24a&creativeASIN=081298160X) by Charles Duhigg. In this chapter, the author tells the story of Paul O'Neil who became the CEO of Alcoa during a very difficult period. Alcoa was losing clients to its competitors, the workers were unhappy, its value was dropping. When he became CEO, he decided to focus on a single thing, making Alcoa the safest industry with 0 incident per year through the whole enterprise. Nobody understood what he was doing at first, but what he did is what the author calls a Small Win.

Paul O'Neil was already familiar with habits and routines, and how successful enterprise were following good routines when something was happening, and bad ones were just not understanding the concept. One example he cites is whenever someone would fix health care issues by building a new hospital so he would be re-elected. The person would simply notice the cue, health care issues, and do the same routine everyone before him did, and then get the reward, being re-elected.

Before accepting the role of CEO, he thought about the actions he would be doing to make a change. He focused on finding the Small Win, and he noticed that reducing incident would bring the workers and the managers closer together, working on something they both wanted. He asked that every incident would have to be reported to him within 24 hours or someone would get fired. It forced managers to talk more with the workers, and put in place routines that made the life better for everyone, to reduce as much the issues. It forced the company to change methods to lower the risks and at the same time, it improved productivity. The company quickly became the strong force it was before, or even better than ever before, only from one keystone habit that the CEO changed.

The concept seems too simple, but I believe it is true that changing one small keystone habit can have a domino effect on everything else afterward, making a very big change. I started writing every day what I learned. It forced me to think about what I learned, stressed me a bit about not learning anything, made me read and listen to podcast more, which in turn made me learn new things to improve my life. The only thing I introduced was writing what I learned once a day. It's not as big a change as what happened with Alcoa, but it's only beginning. Smalls Wins.
