+++
date = "2018-04-14T20:50:53+00:00"
title = "Germination, Typing and Shoulders"

+++
... haven't done much in terms of learning per say. I did however do a lot today, and there are some small improvements I'm currently trying to work out. I started germination again, I started practicing the "right method" for typing and I'm trying to fix my shoulders.

Last Fall, I started doing germination. I actually did it for only two weeks before stopping. The goal was to get healthy food on a daily basis from that, maybe by blending it with fruits and juice in the morning to get some vitamins and fibers. I decided to start alfalfa again as it was the only seed I liked the taste off. The process is rather simple : I put one table spoon of seed in a 500 Ml mason jar with room temperature water for 6 hours. Instead of a lid, I put a net with an elastic to hold it. After six hour, I rinsed the seeds and rotated the jar as I was pouring the water out, so the seeds would spread on the jar rather than all stick in the net. Then, I put them at a 45 degree angle to let the water drip and the air flow inside. From there, every morning and every evening I will rinse the seeds with the same method, and about 6 to 8 days later, I will have a full jar of alfalfa to eat. The reason why those germinated seeds are good is because it's during the first few days after a plant starts to grow that it contains the most nutrients.

Regarding typing, I already learned to typing with the right method, but I never got efficient enough to only use this method. The thing that holds me back the most is my pinkies that aren't very agile yet. Since every shift, enter, backspace, control, etc. is typed with the pinkies, it's important that are agile enough to type fast. It's ironic that they need to do the most stretchy moves on a keyboard while also being the most difficult to move. Maybe a keyboard such as the Ergodox would be a better fit and would not require as much intense movements from the pinkies. Nevertheless, I decided to try and practice the method again on a small website. Turns out that I was able to do 60 WPM which means I'm not that bad with it. The other issue I have with my keyboard is that I'm a programmer so I constantly have to type \[{}\] but I'm also a french Canadian which means I was a layout to have an easy access to accent characters. It means I have a layout on which I must move my hands off of the home row to easily type some programming symbols. The US keyboard layout would be much better to never lift my hands off the home row while programming, but it would also mean losing the ability to write accents, which I have the instinct to do. A keyboard like the Ergodox would allow me to have a layers of keys just for that so I could have my programming and my typing keyboard both easily accessible. Furthermore, the "right method" isn't always the most logical method. One thing that seems weird to me is how they say to use the middle finger to type C while it actually is much easier with the pointer. The keys aren't aligned with the left hand angle but are aligned with the right hand angle, which appears weird to me.

Finally, I have been trying to improve my shoulders. For the past months, they have become more and more tight, make it very difficult to move them in some angles. Whenever I try to do a shoulder roll, I can hear about 10 cracking sounds from them. I believe my shoulders blades aren't always properly aligned, and when I try to align them better, I get a pain in the neck. I believe a lot of nerves are tensed and I'm trying exercises to reinforce this area while also trying to relax the nerves. I follow some exercises I learned in yoga class as well as other exercises I read about. Hopefully, I will be able to get better shoulders soon enough and improve my climbing by doing moves I currently cannot do.