+++
date = "2018-01-09T16:36:13+00:00"
title = "Near Victories"

+++
... listened to the [Near Victories](https://www.npr.org/2015/09/29/439489290/near-wins-and-not-quites-how-almost-winning-can-be-motivating) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, Monica Wadhwa talks about the effect of near victories on the motivations we have.

A near victory is when you get very close to a victory but just not quite there. For instance, it could be getting 4 out of 5 numbers right on a lottery ticket. Monica Wadhwa explains that these near victories keep the person much more motivated to achieve a victory right after the fact, more so than victories or complete failures.

The reason behind this is that as we get closer to an objective, the expectation of a victory builds up. When the victory is achieved, the person gets satisfied and the build up disappears. When there is a complete failure, that expectation never gets close enough to the goal to create any build up. But when the build up is there, people still want to get that victory satisfaction so they work harder on the very next goal they have.

Monica Wadhwa measured it with an experiment where they had a rigged lottery. There were also rewards in the room, more specifically chocolate bars at another desk. What they did to know whether the near victories has such an impact was to measure the time it would take for every participant to go for the chocolate bar. Turns out that the near victories would go get it much faster than any other group.

In this episode, they also talked about another aspect of winning, which was how do you compare yourself when you win. They studied the reaction of medal winners at the Olympics when they were learning they won a medal. They realized that the Bronze medalists were much happier than the Silver medalists, although the Silver medalists were ranked higher. That's because when you are on the 2nd place, you usually compare yourself the 1st place. However, when you are the last to get a medal, you compare yourself with those who did not get a medal at all. As the Bronze is better than the non-medalists, he is happy with his results, but the Silver, being worst than the Gold is not as happy.