+++
date = "2018-02-09T18:38:44+00:00"
title = "Design Thinking, Lean, Agile"

+++
... read [Understanding how Design Thinking, Lean and Agile Work Together](https://www.thoughtworks.com/insights/blog/understanding-how-design-thinking-lean-and-agile-work-together) by Jonny Schneider. In the post, he tries to untangle the three concepts and explain how they actually complete one another.

Design Thinking is much more than what we might assume. We all do it, it's not just something designers do. When designing, we think about possible solutions to a problem. We just think about them, always expanding the list of possible ways to get it done. Designers are trained to do that, but we all do it when faced with a problem. One issue we might have is stopping at the first solution and implementing it right away. But if we just keep exploring, we can amass a lot of solutions.

Lean is very different in the fact that it doesn't think and list solutions, it asserts the different solutions. One key aspect of lean, [that I already talked about in a previous post](https://www.todayi.life/post/2017-12-15/), is the scientific process. This process isn't there to implement the solutions, it's only there to find the right one. Also, lean has a lot to say about the process through which value is produced, i.e. the system in place surrounding its production.

Agile is also different. It's not there to find a solution or figure out the right one to do. It's only there to implement the right solution with a lot of adaptation as new information comes in and thing changes.

When put together, they make sens. It's a succession, with some overlaps. We often see the Double Diamond as the Design Thinking method, but I feel like Design Thinking is the first divergence, lean is the first convergence, and agile and lean together are the last diamond. The overlap is also really well illustrated by Jonny Schneider in this pictures : [here](https://insights-images.thoughtworks.com/06mindsetintersections_c3bf4297699dc8f5f4005ccc6b7ba65b.png).