+++
date = "2018-03-04T16:33:07+00:00"
draft = true
title = "The Rich Invent Money and Work to Learn, Don't Work for Money"

+++
... read the chapters The Rich Invent Money and Work to Learn, Don't Work for Money of the [Rich Dad Poor Dad](https://www.amazon.com/Rich-Dad-Poor-Teach-Middle/dp/1612680003/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=ab72ed8229dbb0b9183b7c8af3a738c8&creativeASIN=1612680003) book by Robert T. Kiyosaki. There are the last two lessons taught in the book.

The rich invent money chapter is simpler than I expected. It basically talks about having the guts to get things done, taking risks. He explains how fear and self-doubt is the most limiting factor of personal genius. Many great minds are actually poor because they lack the courage to act on their genius. I know that I am someone that under estimates my capacities. I actually believe I'm not under estimating anything but everyone else is over estimating, but it comes down to the same thing. I could be bolder about my knowledge and make big moves. I'm still constantly worried of what the consequences of what I say or do could be and I don't want to look like a fool. That is something I should work on. I really believe he's right when he says it's something that limits success in life. The proof is how many fools actually succeed.

The last lesson is more important in my mind, probably because it's already something I value a lot : it's about learning. He claims many things in this chapter. He starts of by telling a story of a great writer who said "I would like to be a best-selling author like you" to Robert. He asked her what was holder her back. She basically just replied that it's not happening, as if it would happen all by itself. He then gave her a suggestion, which she did not like, going to school to learn to sell. He defended his suggestion by telling her that he wasn't a best-writing author, he was a best-selling author, and he was so because he knew how to sell. From that story, he wants us to understand that sales and marketing are two very important skills we'll need if we want to be successful.

He tend talks a more on the subject of learning, but he's not found of the stochastic method. He insists on learning by doing, which is why he says "work to learn, don't work for money". By that he means choose the job that will teach you something valuable rather than something that will pay you well. I truly believe in learning by doing and that learning through work is the best way to learn. It is however difficult to do in the current world because of job requirements. Nevertheless, there is nothing better to truly learn.

He finally insists on going wide rather than deep in what you learn and that it's the way to be successful. He claims that going deep in a profession will basically lower the amount of jobs you can do, and limit you in opportunities. Once you are too far, you can end up with no option. One way to protect yourself when becoming too specialized is through unions as its the only way to keep that job security with no other knowledge. Take for instance a plane pilot with 20 years of experience unable to practice from a health problem. What can he do with his life now? What skill did he learn that could be applied elsewhere? There are options, but they are far more limited than someone who worked on more general skills. On the other hand, someone that learns a bit of many things can bridge those knowledge and see opportunities where others wouldn't. In the book [The Information](https://www.amazon.com/Information-History-Theory-Flood/dp/1400096235/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=e48580357e6f14c74f34f8969f58d5d7&creativeASIN=1400096235) by James Gleick, one thing I noticed about what the big innovations in the 20th century were that almost all the people that made those innovation worked in several distinct fields. For instance, Claude Shannon learned as much mathematics as he did engineering. When he mixed the two skills, the bits and information theory appeared. The same held true when information theory got mixed with psychology and the cognitive revolution happened. So basically, learn wide. I'm already golden with that, all I need is to prioritize my learning.