+++
date = "2018-01-21T15:01:46+00:00"
title = "The Plan v1.1"

+++
... thought a while about how things are evolving, what I want to do, what I have to do, and whether I'm planning too many things. So I decided to take a moment to list everything together by asking myself 3 questions.

What do I do every week?

* Work.
* Play video games with my wife.
* Watch TV shows with my wife.
* Do chores on the weekends.
* Work on side projects on the weekends.
* Read books.
* Listen to podcasts.
* Meditate.
* Do bouldering with friends.
* Write about something I learned, thought, read, etc.

What do I want to do every week?

* Learn to play a music instrument.
* Learn a third language with a different alphabet.
* Learn more about linguistic.
* Learn more about finance.
* Work more on side projects.
* Exercise every day.

What did I read and decided to try?

* Have self reflections at the third person.
* Notice the cues and rewards of several small habits.
* Cut on the shallow work.
* Avoid distracting websites and apps.
* Keep track of my tasks with GTD.

The short term goal is self-improvement, and mid term is my career because improving myself will have an impact on my career, but my career won't have an impact on my self-improvement. I have to consider that working too hard on self-improvement might not yield better results. Therefore, I aim to have an off day every week, the Saturdays, where I won't work at all, be it side project or not. I also aim to work on side projects the Sundays. To have enough time for myself on the weekends, I should not have to do too many chores at that point, so I should do a bit of chores every day.

I also wants to add more physical exercises to at least keep my health in check. A simple solution would be to add a 15 minutes of stationary bike with some push-ups and sit-ups every day after meditation, right before shower. I could use the end of meditation habit to build up the workout routine everyday, so I could better stick to it. I could also do chores 30 minutes everyday when I get back from work.

One issue I have is with video games. We have video game appointments with friends every Sunday and Tuesday night which extends up to 10:30pm. With that schedule, it means I'd have to wake up later and start to work much later, which would mean having shorter evenings. I dislike that, but I enjoy the game. We are nearly done with the progression we want to do in the game, and I play a key role in that progression. I might simply retire from that commitment once the progression is completed, and use that extra time to divide a bit of many other things as well as sleep earlier.

I realize that if I want to complete side projects, the best way is to schedule it like work and do it very frequently. I already had the Sundays for that, but it is difficult to stay focused long enough. Maybe introducing small blocks every day might be working out?

Lastly, I know I won't have time to learn a new language, learn to play piano, learn about linguistic and finance, all at once. I believe the books and podcast I choose should be aiming at a specific goal. At the moment I'm reading self-improving books such as [Deep Work](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1455586692/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1455586692&linkCode=as2&tag=grochat-20&linkId=656f46ccb19aebc7272ca0e4e2c18441) and The Power of Habit. I have a few others in line on the same kind of subject. I'm also listening to Psychology podcasts. Once that part is done, maybe in several weeks, I might be at a good point to focus on the next best thing, finance.

So, if everything goes according to what I'm saying, I'll meditate every morning at 5:30, exercise at 6:00, shower at 6:30, eat right after and leave for work at about 7:15. Then, once I get back home, I'll spend 30 minutes on chores, such as taking out the trash, washing some clothes, washing dishes. Then, I'll have to spend some time reading, eating, writing, and my evening should be open for whatever I feel like doing afterward.
