+++
date = "2018-02-18T17:43:40+00:00"
title = "Silence"

+++
... have been reflecting on the concept of silence. While reading [Reinventing Organizations](https://www.amazon.ca/Reinventing-Organizations-Creating-Inspired-Consciousness/dp/2960133501), some parts talked about organizations that had moments of meditation scheduled every morning. A 15 minutes where everyone would meditate before the start of the day. They talked about many organizations that incorporated meditation in their practice. They also talked about periods of silence before every meetings. One organization in particular has a silent day once a year. It's in a hospital focused on mental issues, and they ask their patients not to talk. Same for the employees. The whole day, in complete silence.

The subject might seem strange coming from me. I usually talk a lot on many subjects, and sometimes I wonder if I'm not trying to hide the silence. But I also believe that silence is good. I can stay in silence with myself easily, it's only when in the presence of others that I have a difficult time. In the book, they talked about how having to work in silence and interact in silence brought people closer since they had to understand each other through other means. I truly believe them, that such situation causes us to pay more attention to other things.

I tried to quickly find information about silence. Obviously, googling that word brings nothing about silence. Even "silence science" brings up a song from an artist, and nothing scientific. There is however some posts, but I haven't seen much about silence in groups. I still remember a friend explaining a retreat he had to do with his class where they would be at a retreat for 3 or 4 days in complete silence. They however also had to avoid other forms of contact as well, so the experience might not be representative of what I read in Reinventing Organizations. Apparently, many find it really difficult not to talk. I would be interesting in trying this situation without the avoidance of other forms of communications. How would I communicate with my significant other?

Lastly, I do believe that being unable to stay in silence alone is a sign that there is something going on in that person's life. In silence, we tend to think a lot more, our brain pops up many thoughts. Keeping stuff going, watching movies, TV shows, listening to music, reading, are all ways to keep the brain busy and potentially avoid thoughts. Maybe silence alone isn't enough, but it could probably help progress through those thoughts, even though they might not be desirable, they are still important. Mindfulness meditation teaches that, to notice the thoughts without judging. That practice might help a lot.