+++
date = "2018-03-02T19:31:49+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Why Teach Financial Literacy?"

+++
... read the Why Teach Financial Literacy? chapter of the [Rich Dad Poor Dad](http://www.lequydonhanoi.edu.vn/upload_images/S%C3%A1ch%20ngo%E1%BA%A1i%20ng%E1%BB%AF/Rich%20Dad%20Poor%20Dad.pdf) book by Robert T. Kiyosaki. In this chapter, he focuses on a very simple rule that has everything to do with financial literacy : get assets, not liabilities. Why a whole chapter on such a simple concept? Because we really have to understand the difference between an asset and a liability.

He basically defines an asset as money that you have that generates more money over time. So, investments are assets, as they constantly generate more money from the money you have. A house is not an asset, as it actually costs you money to keep it at its current value and with taxes. Therefore, a house is a liability as it costs you money even if you own it entirely. He insists on that because as he explains, most middle class keep saying that their house is their most valuable asset. They spend 30 years paying for it, but it actually costs them even after that. And they spent way more than its worth to have it. He says that instead of getting a house, getting assets that will generate more money before buying a house is a more clever way to go about things. He also says that you should not buy the biggest house you can afford, because then you won't have enough left to invest. Instead, buy a reasonable house that fits you needs, and don't scale your needs with your salary.

He also talks about the financial statements of poor, middle class, and rich people. The poor usually have a lot of expenses, while the middle class has a lot of liabilities, and the rich have a lot of assets. Since assets make more money, they make it possible to acquire more assets. On the other hand, liabilities only cost more and more as the liability grow through interests. As for expenses, they just eat all the income 1:1. So, rich men don't have liabilities or too much expenses, and they accumulate assets. Their money goes from their bank account to other assets, always staying in the assets column. That's why rich get richer.

He eventually explains what wealth is from his point of view. Wealth is how long you can survive if you quit your job now. Being wealthy means being able to survive from your assets. Say, you need 2000$ to live per month, and you have assets generating just that, 2000$, you are wealthy. You could quit your job and survive just from what you own. Increase theses assets just a little more and then you can invest the extra, and then you are rich.

He illustrates how getting a good job, getting a house, a car, etc., end up putting us working for 3 entities, never ourselves, and that it doesn't create wealth for ourselves but for others.

1. You work for someone else, therefore your efforts are making the owner and shareholders richer to a greater extend than they pay you.
2. You work for the government, as it takes its share from your paycheck. Working harder means increasing the amount of taxes taken by the government.
3. You work for the bank, as you have you reimburse your mortgage and your credit card debts.

So you end up working for 3 entities, to earn money that will work for them, not for you. The way to get out of this for most is to get rid of the liabilities and then slowly get assets. Eventually, they will compound and generate more and more, but its a slow process at first. Until then, you are someone else's asset.