+++
date = "2018-01-29T19:17:09+00:00"
title = "Rust Versus ..."

+++
... kept working on the proof of concept I started recently. I tried to get a complete loop going in Rust, to see how complex it is to do.

I had already done a part with a websocket receiving calls from a frontend without too much issue. The JSON data was parsed with [serde](https://github.com/serde-rs/serde) to specific structs and enums. It would first parse the JSON to a ChannelPayload object that had only a channel enum, and based the value of that enum, it would then parse the specific payloads.

The next step was to get that channel call and payload and do the right action in a store, a database of some kind. Rather than going for an RDBMS, I tried a MongoDB as I found a good [MongoDB library](https://github.com/mongodb-labs/mongo-rust-driver-prototype), the [MongoDB Compass GUI](https://www.mongodb.com/products/compass), and a nice [MongoDB container](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo/). I was able to quickly put up a MongoDB instance and populate a database with a collection. Then I decided to put everything in separate files to try to build the CQRS concept of read and write stacks behaving differently. It was challenging at first to split the database in different stacks, and splitting the socket. Then I had to query the database (easy) and transform the results into structs I could forward to the frontend (no yet finished...).

While doing all this, I was reading and discussing on the subject of Rust versus Go, while also looking back at the same code in NodeJS. I must admit, Rust is difficult to grasp. I had it on my radar for a long time already, but never put in the effort to start anything with it. Whatever I read about it and all the small puzzles I solved with it for fun, showed me nice patterns to solve problems. I love the match, and the fact that every statement returns. I really like being able to assign an if statement to a variable. I like how it forces us to think about lifetimes and who owns what and when, but it comes with a high cost of coder performance.

On the other hand, Go is renowned for its very quick learning curve, that anyone can be fluent in Go in 3 days. It sounds amazing on paper, but when I read the code, I see patterns I dislike, such as the multi-return. The code doesn't look as appealing. Although, the concepts of go routines and channels are amazing for concurrency, probably much more pleasant to work with than anything equivalent in Rust as of yet.

Finally, there's NodeJS that I already know really well. I can code pretty much anything in minutes with it. Popping up a stack with a Docker container and a REST API takes a few minutes in NodeJS because of how easy it is. I could start a service and have it up in production the same day.

When I think about all three, I see a solid bowl in Rust, no loop hole, everything is said and thought about and you can't spill anything. I see a sieve in Go, where it can hold anything solid you put in it but might leak things here and there, such as forgetting a case or forgetting to handle an error. And then I see air for NodejS, where nothing is explicit and the whole language runs on default behaviors and assumptions. I wish I was better at Rust and had applicable case to use it, but as it is now, Go seems to be the one to learn to upgrade from NodeJS.