+++
date = "2018-06-24T16:05:52-04:00"
draft = false
title = "Commit Signing"

+++
... tried to push the idea of creating a strong chain of custody of codes on a git repository. It basically comes down to the git signing process pushed to the point where the whole git repository would be trust worthy. To help with that, I tried to incorporate Keybase Teams so that the validation of the git signatures would be done based on a team. I found 4 potential methods that can be used together or separately but they all come with a downside.

Option 1: Validate each commit signature on a pull request. It can work as long as the master branch is protected and only pull requests can push to master. Considering the way Github does it, admins can still always push to the master branch regardless of the protection. If their account is compromised, the master branch is compromised and therefore only the pull request commits can be trusted.

Option 2: Validate each tag commit. This can be useful when a build process is triggered from a tag, since the build can basically just fail if the tag is not signed by one of the admin. The downside is that we trust the admin has checked all previous commits and trust them. It still allows undesirable commits to be made, or even the master branch to be rebased entirely without any signed commit aside from the last one. Furthermore, we can only trust this check as long as we can trust the build server. If it is compromised, the build itself can no longer be trusted.

Option 3: Validate every commits on every build. This would replace both option 1 and 2 because the build would instead validate everything every time. It would however become more and more costly over time. Furthermore, in the even that someone leaves the team, the old commits would still be signed by his key, but no new commit should be validated. The only option to prevent new commits from being approved is to remove his public key from the trusted keys, but it also means that all the old commits must be resigned by someone else, which means rebasing the whole branch. It also has all the same downsides as the option 2 regarding the build server trust.

Option 4: Validate commits on merge with a merge bot. It basically has the same checks than option 1, with the added check that the check would be performed by git itself on merge. The downside is that the merge bot could be compromised, and the admin can still merge in the master branch.

For all these options, there are points of failure with the git repository access. As long as it is on a server, that server access can be an issue. The same goes for the list of trusted public keys; can Keybase team list be trusted for a list of accepted public keys? Lastly, it also always comes down to the build server doing the work. Is he secure enough that no one could have tempered with it? Can we trust the resulting builds? Even if they are signed by the server, if the server can no longer be trusted, neither can the signed build. The exact same issues apply to a merge bot that would sign merge commits.