+++
date = "2018-04-18T19:22:17-04:00"
title = "Post Apocalyptic"

+++
... thought about how there are so many stories around Post Apocalyptic worlds. Stories aren't always about Post Apocalyptic futures, but it seems to be more present in the recent years. I have no source to prove that but I feel like there used to be a lot more stories about Technological Futures or Dystopian Futures than stories about Post Apocalyptic futures until a few years back. I'm wondering what that tells us about the current state of mind of the population, the collective fiction regarding the possible future.

My understanding of Dystopian Futures is that many of these stories were created before technology was as common and advanced as it is today. For instance, Brave New World and 1984 were written before the 50s, before computers were even a thing. Some others were just envisioning a much farther ahead future that couldn't be possible with what we now right now. Some Frank Herbert stories (he did stuff outside of Dune) were written with details on how to manipulate the DNA to create stronger humans and how to be able to live indefinitely or control the whole population reproduction with gazes making them infertile, making reproduction only possible in government controlled laboratories. Those stories tell me people were worried of what could happen in the future, with depot in power, new discoveries used to control and gain power rather than improve people lives, robot uprising, etc.

What does Post Apocalyptic worlds mean then? There are a lot of different version. The most popular one is definitely the zombie one, where a disease destroys most of the population. The concept of diseases in general is explored in many ways, such as in the movie Contagion that shows it really well. In terms of zombies we got the World War Z, Walking Dead or Resident Evil stories right up there. There are also the nuclear stories, such as The 100, or even just the Fallout video game series, with the cold war going the wrong way.

In opposition with movies such as Armageddon, the Post Apocalyptic series aren't about how to deal with an impending doom, it's about figuring out how to survive. Are they so appealing to people because we got too easy lives? A psychologist explained why some young people went to ISIS, stating that one of the appeal is to act on something bigger than just oneself, to fight for a cause, to have an actual challenge. Living right now can feel easy, it probably also did in the past as opposed to the previous generation, as it always gets easier. But could it eventually become too easy. One of the Dystopian Futures we saw was telling us about this very thing, Wall-E.

In conclusion, are we enjoying Post Apocalyptic stories because they allow us to vicariously have a difficult life, challenges to overcome, no rules to follow, only one simple but demanding goal? Or are they a way to show what we believe will happen in the future, the kind of global premonition that things will go wrong? Have we had in the past so many stories being written and told by so many people that we could study the collective fiction of what we are heading towards? With information transmitting so easily, maybe those stories are ways to warn us. I take them as ways to make sure people know the risks of where we could be heading, and how not to get there. 