+++
date = "2018-04-30T20:27:58-04:00"
title = "Positive Thinking..."

+++
... discussed a bit more about staying positive and the difficulty it involves. I have been behaving and thinking very negatively over the past few weeks, and it's definitely getting at me. I do not know how to inverse that in the current position. I know that being positive about things is much better, but I don't see how I can be positive with what I got in my surroundings. When I discussed about my "Burning Rage", the methods I got to help with that is wait and do more sports basically.

The reason of the subject is that in my current professional position, I get a lot of frustration about things that don't work and responsibility regarding those broken things get dropped on me. That doesn't help with the rage and negativity. Maybe one method to not get impacted so much by all this would be to take a step back from my work, to not get involved so much, to take it easy. My issue with that approach is that it actually makes me care less, be less thoughtful, producing sub par work. It's not professional and acceptable. It's the very behavior that caused all those bugs I have to fix.

So I'm feeling stuck because although I'd like to have a positive outlook on things, I feel crushed under the weight on all that technical debt and lack of professionalism from some of my peers. I only wished to have my own thing to work on and do well, forgetting all the other negative things. I say wished because now I even feel that it wouldn't motivate me more, I would only feel another responsibility added to the list, because every things you develop end up following you, and you become responsible for it until it's done or you leave for another workplace. As soon as you fix something, it's your code...

Even though the CEO/CTO is making a lot of big moves on the technical side, and there are a lot of change taking place, I do not feel very motivated by them. I'm rather cynical because from experience things have been more talk than do, so until I see the real involvement from my peers, I'm unable to get motivated by it. It's actually quite sad that I got to this point considering I'm someone very curious and usually motivated by all sorts of things.

Maybe I should just stop doing whatever I don't like doing at work, or stop caring for things/getting involved to get my sanity back. Still, I don't see how that can be a good thing in the long run, but it might help in the near future.