+++
date = "2018-04-21T18:47:48-04:00"
title = "Should I Stop This?"

+++
... thought about this blog and the progress I made and the progress I'm not really doing at the moment. I feel like whatever I've written over the past few weeks have been hardly worth writing about, and nearly none were about things I learned over the day. The whole process of learning every single day something new is very tiring and I haven't had the energy and willpower to keep going at it. It needs to be less forced, more natural, to be sustainable. Such as whatever you learn while working, or something that is actually relaxing you while you learn. But since learning is almost always involving a state of deliberate practice, it is by design difficult and tiring.

One thing that makes me tired as well is being divided on too many things at once. I tried to learn about finance, psychology, now I want to get better physical with two sports, I'm trying to work on growing all sorts of plants, I'm planning on learning another language, and I have a dozen different projects I have in mind that I want to try. From what I learned these past few months, I need to focus on something to better improve at that something without feeling too much overwhelmed. I feel like quitting this daily writing because I hardly ever know what to write about. I haven't kept most of the habits I tried to instill (some did stick a little bit) and even as I diminish the amount of things I force myself to do, I still feel like it's too much and want to do less and less.

So, should I quit this daily writing? Is it still worth doing. Am I still learning something worth learning with this process? I honestly don't know. I have been going at it for so long, I don't want to stop, but whenever I think about the fact that I'm supposed to write, I'm wondering what interesting thing I have to say today. I have been procrastinating a lot more in the past few weeks than ever since I started to blog, and I'm not sure how to get it fixed. There are however things I still feel motivated about, but I hardly have anything to write for it, such as climbing. I have been watching a lot of videos and I really want to climb more and get better at it. I worked my shoulders a lot for the past two weeks and they have been getting a bit better, mostly the left one.

I want to learn a new language with my wife. The goal was to start right after finishing to read the book on memory (which I haven't finished yet). I also want to start running again, because of the energy it gives and how it improves my endurance. I did 2 half marathon, and I'd like to do a full marathon for once. That could be a good motivation, but it would also require a lot of effort and dedication. I also started playing more video games, maybe because my brain needs to rest a bit, I'm not sure. But I've been enjoying playing some single player stuff that I can end and cross off a list of games I own.