+++
date = "2018-03-14T19:58:24+00:00"
title = "Curiosity Teaching"

+++
... did another presentation to my team about the CI/CD workflow we currently use at work. Next week I'm gonna explain to them a gateway I made several years ago that follows a specific industry standard for the data source and what it implied technologically. Last week I presented to them the structure of another complex gateway with continuous data delivery. I also made several other presentations like that to the whole development team, not just our smaller 5 devs team. I presented stuff such as web scrapping, the functional side of javascript, how promises work, how Redis works. I also presented a conference at the Agile Tour in Quebec City in November 2017. I have been presenting a lot of information for quite some time now.

One of my professional goal this year is to better distribute my knowledge. I actually started that goal in September 2017. Since then, I made sure that everyone in the team touched each part of the process a gateway usually imply. We coded many gateways and they all have a common concept. I also made sure to code as little as possible and focus on the reviews instead. Doing presentation of stuff they haven't been able to touch yet makes sens and helps with that goal. I called it my replacement plan, not because I want to be replaced, but because I want the whole team to be independent and being able to succeed on its own, without needing me to make it work. I don't know if I'm good or not at giving them the required knowledge, I don't really know if they need more or less support, but I trust that they'll tell me. The presentation I made to them came from interrogations, things they heard about but didn't really know what they really are. I also try to give them the energy to learn and be curious, and not just professionally. I talked about the impact of meditation to two of them, and I also talked about the GTD to get more organized. Whenever we do a sprint meeting, I also add what I'm trying to do to improve while we work. One time I told them I decided to switch to only using Vim mode in my text editors. Since then one of them switched to it as well and we've been exchanging tricks.

There is one thing Robert T. Koyisaki said that didn't stick entirely until today. He said he loves to teach, and he realized he learns a lot simply from teaching to others, that they give him a lot to learn about. I've been focusing on the whole learning thing on my side, and I believe it is still very good to gain a strong knowledge on some fields. But I also talk about what I learn a lot. They always say that to know whether you understand something, try to teach it to someone else. In high school I was already doing that. Whenever we'd prepare for exams, I was answering questions my class mates had. I never studied by myself, and I knew things better than most, it was confirmed by how I was explaining to them. Even while studying in College I sometimes was teaching to others right before the exams and they often thanked me because they understood something, and I didn't have to study at all because of that.

I don't think teaching the regular lectures way is really a good method. Teaching a big group doesn't allow one to notice the different learning methods. Whenever you work with someone, you can guide them through methods you see work better. You can motivate them and give them the trust they need to believe they can do it and actually learn. I believe a learning method through work where the mentor and the mentees work on the same thing together can greatly improve the learning process of both. The mentor is still learning as he goes, so he not only teaches how to do things but how to learn to do things.

I have also been thinking about a concept of role inversion. Quite often the mentor is a form of authority. I don't really like that as the mentor and mentee are more colleagues with different capacity at different stages. There are always things the mentees are better at than the mentor, and forcing a situation where the mentee is teaching the mentor probably helps a lot with the confidence of the mentee while also diminishing the mentor authority. It would become easier to challenge the mentor on ideas rather than taking everything he says for granted. I truly believe it is a form of teaching that can have a very big impact.

I'm only realizing now that I kind of have been teaching for most of my life. I've always been curious and enjoying telling people stuff I learned. I know some already told me they enjoy meeting at the coffee machine because they always hear about something new. Maybe it can become overwhelming for some, but from those who enjoy it, I take it as the fact that I'm so curious that it reflects on my behavior what spreads in my communications. To come back to what Robert T. Koyisaki explained, it makes more sens now that I look at how as if I have been teaching for a while now, just in a much different context. Working on the mentor/mentee relation that way is basically that very concept of learning while teaching. I believe that is something I'll always enjoy doing, and could become a good way of life.