+++
date = "2018-02-04T16:08:28+00:00"
draft = true
title = "The Plan 1.2"

+++
... thought a bit about how The Plan is progressing and what I find the most difficult with it. I had a short but similar discussion with my wife regarding her own goals. We both came to the conclusion that the exercise part is the most difficult one to keep.

For my part, as my driving goal is writing what I learn or think every day, physical activity isn't tied in any way to that. I meditate every morning without any issue, I listen to a podcast once a day, I read every day and I write every day. None of these is as difficult as exercising is. Even cleaning up for a half hour every day is easier than exercising (not sure why though). Most of the tasks I find easy to follow are helping with my greater goal of learning.

My wife has had a difficult time doing physical activities every day as well. Her overall goal as I understand it is self-care, be it for the mind of body. The ones she notes are all in link to the physical, so it would have made sens if it had come easier for her to follow this.

The thing I noticed with physical activity for myself, and I believe to be true for my wife too, is that the physical activities seem to hardly have an impact on our daily lives. Actually, the impact it has is physical pain, sweat, and time spent doing it. But we see no beneficial gain yet. The other activities have a positive impact.  I enjoy learning, and I have something to write about. She takes her medication without any skips and see a better control of both her blood sugar level and breathing.

Another aspect that makes it difficult to follow The Plan is the time available every day. I feel like I hardly have enough room for activities before I'm too tired to keep going. Also, I feel like I'm not able to have enough sleep. I should maybe reduce on the amount I do every day, but reading is important, so is the podcast and the meditation. I don't want to dismiss the daily chores as the apartment has never been cleaner and my weekend chore list shorter. The only thing I can take out of the list is exercise, yet I know I must do more for it. 

I propose to change the formula for the next week. Instead of doing bike 15 minutes every morning, I'll go for a run outside 30 minutes every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Considering I'll also be doing bouldering once a week, it would be 4 physical activities a week. The change I proposed to my wife was to first take out the weekends obligation and have it optional. The pace is very different over the weekend and having that time to rest would probably be more beneficial. Is it a time of planed cheating, which has been proven (thanks to The Power of Habit) to have only a beneficial impact on the happiness without any reduction in the gains.