+++
date = "2018-03-22T19:02:58+00:00"
title = "The Plan 1.5"

+++
... have been thinking a bit about The Plan. For the last few days, I have been waking up later than usual, delaying the daily meditation to the late afternoon, skipping the daily podcast entirely or pushing it back to the way home, avoiding to read once home because I was too tired or wanted to watch a movie or do something else, etc. I'm aligning the fails one after the other.

Another thing I've noticed is that I still have a hard time staying focus at work. Whatever I learned from Deep Work or The Power of Habit isn't applied much. I also fiddled more with my nails, started biting them again. There definitely is something I'm doing wrong at the moment. Maybe it is a lack of energy that decreases my willpower, maybe it's just that I'm slowly getting overwhelmed by all those things. In any case, something needs to change.

For the next two weeks, down to the 5th of April, I will stop recording The Plan. I will still write a post every day, that must never stop, that is the only thing I've stuck to without fail. I will still meditate every day. That has been a very calming moment and I don't want to stop it and lose the progress I've made. I'm able to start calming within a minute, slowly feeling my heartbeats in my hands and feet, or my chest. I still have a lot of thoughts running through my head while doing so, and I don't try to stop them, I just try to notice them and move on to how I feel.

The other things will probably still happen. I will still do the accounting, I will still read and learn things, I will still wash dishes and clothes, etc. But I will remove the constraint of having to do each every single day. I will read as much as needed to learn something. I will listen to a podcast if that makes sens to learn something new. It will be a good experiment to see if I can keep some of those habits without having to keep a tight schedule. For instance, I don't browse YouTube when I get back from work, nor do I browse Facebook or Hacker News. I don't even think about browsing them anymore. Yes I do go on YouTube sometimes, but it always have a very specific reason. I really love music and some YouTubers have very interesting channels for that, such as Andrew Huang where I learn about all kind of music stuff. Or I will specifically look for a show I enjoyed that got copied on YouTube.

I will also try to get back the morning routine of starting with meditation and then selecting right away the podcast episode I will listen to while heading to work. I believe this flow was a small habit loop that could keep that going. I hope I'll have more energy by relieving this pressure point. Maybe it won't be enough, we'll see. Maybe it's just that too many things are going on in my head at once. I said that already, and it hasn't really changed. Don't they say that the more you learn, the more you see you have to learn? Maybe that's just it.