+++
date = "2018-01-14T17:27:20+00:00"
title = "Music and Deep Work"

+++
... thought about the impact of music on the concept of [Deep Work](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1455586692/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1455586692&linkCode=as2&tag=grochat-20&linkId=656f46ccb19aebc7272ca0e4e2c18441) as explained by Cal Newport. In his book, he does not talk about music, although it seems to me that it is often used to help get focused on a task at hand. I am wondering whether it came up during his research and the impact was not relevant, or if it just didn't come up.

For as long as I can remember, listening to music while doing something else was always something I did. As a kid, when we were cleaning up, I still remember some Supertramp in the background. While in high school, I spent a lot of time listening to music in the school bus, to fall asleep at night, etc. Most of the time, I was also reading a book. That followed me after high school in CEGEP, as well as once I started to work in the video game industry and up to today. Whenever I could work on a task that did not require me to listen to something precise or pay attention to the surrounding sounds, I'd put on some music. That also applied while playing video games.

Rather quickly I realized that I would make strong associations between the music I was listening and the activity I was doing. Supertramp brings me an image of cleaning up the living room on a Sunday afternoon with the sun through the windows. The album Untouchables by Korn brings me mental pictures of the books I was reading at the time, The Elenium trilogy by David Eddings. Listening to Death or Behemoth brings back pictures of the library of the CEGEP I went to, or the bus rides from there. Listening to Nine Inch Nails brings pictures of questing in Borean Tundra, heading to Coldarra in World of Warcraft. Lana Del Rey brings memories of questing in Mist of Pandaria with my wife. TesseracT's first album brings memory of when I was painting the living room in our current apartment.

I also realized that whenever I wasn't able to listen to music for an extended period of time, I would slowly enjoy things less. I sometimes ended up having cravings to listen to music without doing anything else. Whenever I can work or play a game while also listening to music, I immediately have a more enjoyable time, even if the work I'm currently doing is rather unpleasant.

While I'm programming I usually listen to relaxing music without any lyrics. But sometimes, when I don't need to think as much as I need to code (grunt work style), I put on something more aggressive with a lot of polyrhythms. When working with the right music, I can completely forget the passing of time. Sometimes, I use it like a barrier blocking the surrounding noises that might take my attention off of what I'm currently doing.

Does the action of listening to music, music the listeners listened to many times already, affects the Deep Work he is doing? Is it introducing distractions to his subconscious that is detrimental to his performance?
