+++
date = "2018-02-19T19:39:13+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Honesty"

+++
... have been thinking about my own social interaction with colleagues and people in general. I've always been able to get along with pretty much anyone, never really having any conflicts. I get along with people in general. I could have a decent conversation with pretty much any one, and never any argument. If I don't get along with someone, usually I just don't talk to them unless I have to for professional reasons, and when I do, there is no issue whatsoever.

For quite some time already, I wondered if I was just meek. Am I not talking what's on my mind for real? Are my opinions not strong enough that they can easily be changed from some arguments? I never was sure whether it was just an impression or if I truly was. I always considered that I naturally play the devil's advocate. Whenever someone would say the pros, I would remind him of the cons, and whenever he'd switch to the cons, I'd remind him of the pros. In the end, is that just indecision? Am I getting along in conversations because I don't really have an opinion? I think not, but those are thoughts I have had.

Today, I was thinking more about whether I was being honest with my colleagues. I ended up being closer to some work politics stuff happening, and that usually ends up being talking with X about Y, then Y about Z, then Z about X, etc. Since I get along with pretty much anyone, I end up being able to talk to anyone about pretty much anything, but sometimes, I don't really get along with some persons. Sometimes, I'm actually being pissed at stuff they did or said, because in office politics, it often ends up being saying what the other wants to hear while working on your own agenda. It is very annoying, as we never can have a nice honest conversation. But I am also wondering whether I am part of the problem. I never tell someone when I don't trust him and don't believe him and his intentions. I just "play along". Is that wrong? Should I be bluntly honest? Should I just keep giving them just as much as they ask without falling in the game and starting my own agenda? I hate office politics because it usually is a proof of a very orange organization where each and everyone just fight for themselves and not the actual organization.

Basically, I am wondering whether I am being honest with myself, whether I really follow my opinions and values, or if I just let them be overrun by stronger personalities. I dislike office politics, I got too close to some of it, and I want to step back from it. It is not a valuable thing to do, and I am not achiever enough to take part of it to grow myself. People participating in it annoy me sometimes, but I never tell. Maybe, the worst part of office politics is being part of someone's agenda, or knowing about it, then being asked not to tell anyone, and then being unable to openly talk with some other colleagues, wondering what can you say and what you can't. That's such a useless mental juggling which brings nothing but issues in the end.