+++
date = "2018-01-30T20:08:36+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Scientific Process and Replication"

+++
... listened to [The Scientific Process](https://www.npr.org/2016/05/24/477921050/when-great-minds-think-unlike-inside-sciences-replication-crisis) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, they talk about the [replication crisis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Replication_crisis) on psychology studies based on a paper published in 2015. In this paper, Brian Nosek published results from the replication of 100 psychology studies, in which only 39 had the same results.

They took the concept of replication of the scientific method. Given the exact same procedure in the same conditions, the same results should hold. Given two solid apples on a table, cutting each with a knife should always produce four apple parts. Many results published are never replicated, the experiment never done a second time. Replication gives more weight to the results, while non-replication shows the results as being less valid, or even dismissed.

The issue with that is the scientific method does not talk about replication to prove the previous results were not forged, or the scientific was not incompetent, as the media would have shows. Instead, they are a way to add more knowledge on the issue, to add more variables, to give more information to see what it truly is. The replication crisis was a misinterpretation of the replication process.

For instance, they took an experiment about stereotype in which they decided to measure positive stereotype effect. Mostly negative ones are studied, but positive ones probably have an impact too. The study tried to see whether Asian females would do better in math when being primed about the Asians being good in math stereotype as opposed to being primed about the female being bad in math stereotype. The results were conclusively showing that being primed by the Asian stereotype increased math performance from the same participants.

However, several years later, when two distinct teams tried to reproduce the experiment, only one of them had similar results. They believed it to disprove the results, yet all I can see, and what Hidden Brain seems to conclude, is that not all variables were known. One thing they point toward is that the experimenters were both male and female in the group that did not get the same results, while they were all female in the original experiment and the one that replicated the results.

I also believe it could be temporal or geographical. What if the study was performed in Europe, or Asia? What if the stereotype has changed over time, or even been replaced by another one? They even explain how some experiments find results too specific to be reproducible years later.

Given that, the psychology results should not be taken as literally as they are in other fields. Even in physics there is a lot of randomness in how particles behave, so a same experiment can yield different results. The only important thing to remember is that an experiment is only a small dot that shows a subset of data given a situation, and the scientific method and the concept of replication is only there to add more dots to eventually see a bigger picture.