+++
date = "2018-04-16T20:27:08-04:00"
title = "Pinkies and Shared Code"

+++
... mostly tried to program using the right method of writing on a keyboard. The pinkies are hurting still, the arms tired of practicing so much on those fingers that usually are barely used.

I'm actually debating whether it's actually good to use the pinkies for programmers. The way keyboards are designed,  the most used keys are in the middle of the keyboard, and the least used keys outside. What it does however is that the only fingers that can reach the least used keys are the pinkies. All other more agile fingers are stuck on the middle where you would only get a-zA-Z0-9. That's why vim like shortcuts are so useful, you can easily reach them without having to stretch the fingers to do weird commands. And as we know, programmers tend to write way more symbols than any letter, and that's because if the languages we used that constantly need symbols to understand what we want to say. Furthermore, with auto-completes, we write less and less letters because we can just tab the next character.

All that means for me is that I will stick to the right method only to improve my pinkies agility up to a point. My biggest slowdown with my natural method is the fact that I barely use some fingers on my right hand, while I could be using much more. Optimally, I would be using 4 fingers in each hand, including the thumbs. Considering I have very large hands and long fingers, pressing backspace or escape with my ring finger doesn't really move my hand outside of the home row (I can have my pointer on f or j while doing those moves). I'll still keep an eye on the Ergodox as it seem to be a rather good middle ground where many keys I would normally write with my pinkies would be closer to my other fingers, or I could enable a thumb shortcut to switch to a symbol layers for my more agile fingers to touch.

Finally, the last thing I did today was to setup a MongoDB connection with some Schema and Models that we wanted shared between a worker and an api. Each being entirely separate from the other, we had to find a way to have the code available to both without having to manually copy/paste. The initial method was to copy from a shared folder to a very specific location within each project. The downside is when you want to run tests outside of a container, you still end up with the issue of not having the code within the project. The method we decided to try instead was to keep a symbolic link in the node\_modules of the project for the unit tests to work, and to automatically create that same symbolic link during the container build. This way, the files can be referred to from anywhere as if they were external packages by simply using the link name in the require. For instance, I linked the shared folder in node\_modules/\_ so now I can call a require on \_/my_shared_object. It makes it every easy and consistant to share resources. The most appropriate method would most likely be an actual private npm package, but that would require a lot of setup, linking to develop that library while testing everything, etc. That method makes it possible to quickly start off with the possibility to easily move to something more maintanable later on.