+++
date = "2018-04-10T20:51:12+00:00"
title = "External and Internal Memory"

+++
... read yet another chapter of [Moonwalking With Einstein](https://www.amazon.com/Moonwalking-Einstein-Science-Remembering-Everything/dp/0143120530/ref=as_sl_pc_qf_sp_asin_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=ed04a2458b6b056f6788ee21e5ceb646&creativeASIN=0143120530) by Joshua Foer. In this chapter, he talks about the history behind remembering, starting from before writing. I feel like I already said that he talks about that in a previous chapter, but this one is mostly focused on how we slowly moved our memory from inside to outside.

He starts the chapter by talking about Socrate again, who was against writing because it was only teaching forgetfulness. I still believe it had some good effect, mostly adding new ways to think with abstractions and what not, as well as keeping knowledge through generations. They explain that although writing had been invented, for several hundred years, everything was written in a single block, no space, no punctuation, nothing to help distinguish the words. It was just a long stream of capital letters to form sounds. People would actually read aloud because they had to heard the sound to know what was written. It was considered more a learning tool, to help memorizing, than anything else.

They also talk about how before printing was a thing, people were reading in order to remember, while now we just read as much as we can. Since books were rare, people put quality in their reading, rather than quantity. They couldn't read the same book twice, considering how rare they were, so that had to remember as much as possible. In opposition, today we have people paying to learn how to read faster and claim it's alright to not know what you read 50% of the time.

They also talked about a bunch of inventor that tried to recreate the mind palace, not just virtually but physically, as well as people teaching memory tricks and what not. Of all those, the most impressive thing is the last person they talk about, someone from Microsoft that decided to do a Lifelog. Basically, everything he does it recorded and indexed, everything he reads, everything he hears. He can find back anything from a cue in his brain, and then building queries in the system he built just to find back anything that happened. He basically built something to give him perfect memory by recording everything. Unlike S, the person with a perfect memory, he doesn't feel overwhelmed by all this, he feels liberated.

The interesting subjects that it brings is the concept of self. He has to manually record and index everything, but with AIs and search engine, sound and picture recognition, everything that could be recorded (not there yet for smell, taste and touch) could be indexed on the fly by computers. They are much much less efficient than the human brain can be, but they always keep everything it's told to keep, unlike the human brain. If we had such a device added to ourselves, and with brain controlled computers triggering the searches, it would basically become an addition to ourselves. Would that change our perception of who we are? For instance, when I talk with someone and they say something that triggers a memory, that my memory, that's me doing the brain work and coming up with the idea. If I had such a device added to myself and also get the trigger but from the digital memory, would that still be me? Would my perception be half transferred in the device?

That basically closes the loop between internal and external memories, with the ultimate "what if we externalize the concept of self in internalize the external memory".