+++
date = "2018-01-20T11:48:25+00:00"
draft = true
title = "tbd"

+++
... read The Golden Rule of Habit Change chapter of [The Power of Habit](https://www.amazon.com/Power-Habit-What-Life-Business/dp/081298160X) book by Charles Duhigg. In this chapter, he talks about how we can change habits by showing us how a group successfully understood how to change habits without knowing it: AA.

Many of the [12 steps]() of AA are actually steps one must follow to change a habit. It involves realizing what the cues triggering the routine are, and what reward is it bringing. In recognizing what the cues are and what reward that routine bring, it's possible to then devise a plan to replace the bad routine with a good one, based off the same cues and rewards.

When alcoholics are explaining why they drink, it never is for the feeling, it always is to forget about something, numb some emotions, etc. The cues that trigger the drinking routine might be anxiety, stress, loneliness, etc. Once its recognized, a new routine can be created. For instance, AA have a concept of sponsors. When someone would notice the cue, for some cases he would have to call his sponsor, spend time with him, talk to him. That would become the new routine to deal with the issue at hand. The anxiety would lower, he wouldn't feel as lonely, etc. The reward was the same, the routine just became to talk about it with someone. It's an example among others, but it boils down to replacing the routine.

They even talked about habits such as nail biting, which I do. They talked about a person that had it to a point where she was hurting herself a lot from that. They asked her to note what she felts when she wanted to bite or nail, and to mark on card when she did. Then, they proposed her a new routine, such as putting her hands in her pockets or holding a pen. She eventually replaced the nail biting habit from that.

They listed many other habits people might wanna change, such as procrastination or over eating. As I was reading through, I wondered which habit I have that could be changed for the better, and what the cues are for these habits. I came down with a small list to begin with. The goal is not to change those habit now, but merely to notice what the cues and rewards are. The list is:

* Nail biting
  * I believe it has to do with stress and boredom.
* Procrastination with chores
  * I have no clue how that could be a routine but they listed it. I'll have to reflect on that.
* Lots of coffee/tea at work 
  * I believe the cue is whenever I finish a task, I try to get away from my desk for a few minutes and the only reason to do so is to go get a drink or go to the rest room.
* Talking too often at work
  * I believe the cue is similar in that it might be after a task I try to socialize before getting back to the next one, but that can often lead to a little too much off time.
* Eating when going in bed
  * Almost every night I go to bed and as I'm heading there I feel some hunger and I grab a little something to eat. Most of the time, it has cheese in it, and I eat a little too much, ending up with acid reflux over night.