+++
date = "2018-02-10T15:40:03+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Organizations Assumptions"

+++
... kept reading Reinventing Organizations by Frederic Laloux. I read the first part of the chapter about self-management processes. Rather than writing all I read, I want to write down the part where he explains that most companies have decided to be explicit about usual organization assumptions and what they decided to assume instead.

The first one is assumptions Dennis Bakke wrote about. He's the co-founder of [AES Corporation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AES_Corporation) and was CEO when he wrote this. This first list of what he says owners of a typical factory assume about the workers.

> * Workers are lazy. If they are not watched, they will not work diligently.
> * Workers work primarily for money. They will do what it takes to make as much money as possible.
> * Workers put their own interest ahead of what is best for the organization. They are selfish.
> * Workers perform best and are most effective if they have one simple repeatable task to accomplish.
> * Workers are not capable of making good decisions about important matters that affect the economic performance of the company. Bosses are good at making these decisions.
> * Workers do not want to be responsible for their actions or for decisions that affect the performance of the organization.
> * Workers need care and protection, just as children need the care of their parents.
> * Workers should be compensated by the hour or by the number of "pieces" produced. Bosses should be paid a salary and possibly receive bonuses and stock.
> * Workers are like interchangeable parts of machines. One "good" worker is pretty much the same as any other "good" worker.
> * Workers need to be told what to do, when to do it, and how to do it. Bosses need to hold them accountable.

This second list, is the assumptions he has about the people at AES.

> AES people:
>
> * Are creative, thoughtful, trustworthy adults, capable of making important decisions;
> * Are accountable and responsible for their decisions and actions;
> * Are fallible. We make mistakes, sometimes on purpose;
> * Are unique; and
> * Want to use our talents and skills to make a positive contribution to the organization and the world.

The second organization that had those assumptions made explicit was [FAVI](http://www.favi.com/en/about-favi/). Similarly, Jean-François Zobrist wrote the assumptions from the old model first, and the new set of assumptions after.

> The analysis of our organization chart in the 1980s reveals without a doubt that men and women were considered to be:
>
> * **Thieves** because everything was locked up in storage rooms.
> * **Lazy**, as their working time was controlled and every late showing punished by somebody... who didn't even care to inquire about the reasons for being late.
> * **Not dependable** because all of their production was controlled by somebody else who must not have been very dependable either because random controls ... had been put in place.
> * **Not intelligent**, as a "manufacturing engineering" department did the thinking for them.

To that, he added the new version.

> * **People are systematically considered to be good**. (Reliable, self-motivated, trustworthy, intelligent)
> * **There is no performance without happiness**. (Tho be happy, we need to be motivated. To be motivated, we need to be responsible. To be responsible we must understand why and for whom we work, and be free to decide how)
> * **Value is created on the shop floor**. (Shop floor operators craft the products; the CEO and staff at best serve to support them, at worst are costly distractions)