+++
date = "2018-03-03T18:25:43+00:00"
title = "Mind Your Own Business and The History of and The Power of Corporation"

+++
... read the Mind Your Own Business and The History of and The Power of Corporation of the [Rich Dad Poor Dad](https://www.amazon.com/Rich-Dad-Poor-Teach-Middle/dp/1612680003/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=ab72ed8229dbb0b9183b7c8af3a738c8&creativeASIN=1612680003) book by Robert T. Kiyosaki. These are the third and fourth lessons taught in the book.

The Mind Your Own Business chapter focuses on one pretty simple and straight forward concept : know what business you are in and focus on it. What he means by that is to understand that your business is actually not what your profession is. I might be a programmer, but that's just what I learned to do. I'm not in the programming business to build my assets. My skill has to do with the business of my employer. When I take my money and invest it, that's my business. To illustrate that concept, the difference between the skills and the assets, he talks about the founder of McDonald's who always said that he was in the real-estate business, not the hamburger business. All he was focusing on was the location of the properties that would be bought by people who wanted the franchise banner. To quote a previous CFO : 

> we are not technically in the food business. _We are in the real estate business_.  The only reason we sell fifteen-cent hamburgers is because they are the  greatest producer of revenue, from which our tenants can pay us our rent.

The History of and The Power of Corporation chapter focuses on the benefits of corporations and the history of taxes. Many like the Robin Hood story of the hero that took from the rich and gave to the poor. That's one of the reason so many people liked the idea of a permanent tax on the rich, and how it got to be. But once the government needed more money, the poor got taxed too. In the meantime, the rich didn't like being taxed, knew how to play the game, and found workarounds. One of the biggest legal workaround is through corporations.

It's simple. Corporations don't have the same law regarding tax than citizens. If it makes money, it's not taxed for the same percentage. Whenever it needs to pay for something, that money is withdrawn from the total revenue that is taxed. The rich decided that they could be working for corporations that held their money for them. This way, they could only get as little as they'd need and pay taxes only on that part of their revenue. Then, the corporation would reinvest, pay for the car, the travels, etc., all being business expenses, not included in the taxed income.

So basically, to better protect your assets, work for your own business that gets paid for your work and only get dividends to meet your cost of living. Once you generate enough money from your assets to warrant a corporation, it's a really good way to protect them and allow them to grow faster.

He also talks about four very important skills to learn to build a good financial IQ :

1. Accounting
2. Investing
3. Understanding markets
4. Laws

I already started to read upon accounting, and I'll keep trying to learn about that. It appears to be very logical and simple, just tedious and boring. Maybe my first impression is wrong, but that's one of the reason I moved away from accounting in CEGEP. As far as investing goes, I started reading on the subject and will be investing once I get rid of my debts. The markets part will probably be a lifelong learning, and the laws is something I don't even know where to begin.
