+++
date = "2018-01-15T17:55:48+00:00"
title = "Art Forgery"

+++
... listened to the [Forgery](https://www.npr.org/2015/12/01/457232855/how-the-brain-tells-real-from-fake-from-fine-art-to-fine-wine) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, Noah Charney talks about art forgery, more specifically of paintings. He explains the motivations behind art forgery and explains it through the forgeries of Eric Hebborn.

Eric Hebborn did not succeed from his own artwork although he had some talent. At some point, he bought drawings at a flea market, that looked like they were of value. He brought them to an art gallery which bought them for a little more than he paid for them. Eventually, he walked by the same art gallery and saw the same drawing for sale at a much higher value than what he was paid for. He felt he had been duped by the gallery, decided to get revenge and began his career as one of the best art forger there is.

The motivation behind such revenge, as explained by Noah Charney and Shankar Vedantam, is both to prove that he's as good as the master and that the art experts are not experts after all. The first can simply be understood as if he can pass something to be from a master, he's as good as the master. His failure as an artist is therefore only because of a bias toward the masters. The second is basically saying that if these art experts are such experts, how can they not see that it's not an original piece of art? Therefore, they are not experts and their opinion on the matter is of no real value.

The issue with that kind of revenge is that it is only known by the forger, and he never gets to put it in their face. That's why Noah Charney claims many forgers are trying to get caught or add time bombs (anachronisms) to the art. Eric Hebborn for instance published a book on the art of forgery. Noah Charney also talked about a German forger who sued himself and proved that he did forgeries by pointing to time bombs in art pieces he restored.