+++
date = "2018-02-14T20:25:24+00:00"
title = "Facts Versus Emotions"

+++
... listened to the [I'm Right, You're Wrong](https://www.npr.org/2017/12/25/572162132/enter-title) episode of the hidden brain podcast. In this episode, they talk with Tali Sharot, author of the book [The Influential Mind](https://www.amazon.com/Opinion-Others-Tali-Sharot/dp/1627792651).

The episode starts off by exploring actual political debates, such as vaccine and climate change. Often, one side of the debates comes with proof and data about its claim, and can't believe the other side isn't changing its mind although there are undeniable proofs. Usually, those debates involves one side being shown new data in the hope that it will change that person's opinion, yet it does not work.

Tali Sharot explains how the mind works and process information. Turns out that we actually are open to new data, only if it helps reinforcing our original belief. Whenever a contradicting data is shown, we tend to dismiss it, assume it is invalid, etc. The thing is, that is the correct response most of the time. Most of the time, the new information is invalid, has no ground, and should be dismissed. The issue it causes is when the person holds a wrongful belief, it makes it much harder to change that person's mind.

Another issue is with how we weight opinions on a subject. Given 10 persons telling you the same thing, 5 saying the opposite, you'd believe the bigger number. That also holds true if we have 10 neophytes and 5 experts. We weight their opinions the same, even though the 5 experts should have much more weight in the decision.

Turns out that there are ways to change people's opinions, but it involves emotions. For instance, they explain how fear can be used to change someone's opinion, but it only works if the goal is inaction rather than action. Fear can work to convince not to vaccine kids, but wouldn't work for the opposite. A stronger emotion to convince people to act, for instance change behavior regarding climate change, is hope. In any case, emotions are much stronger than evidence in changing someone's mind, which is unfortunate. The scientific community constantly come up with more and more proofs yet they still constantly have a hard time convincing people of the validity of the issue at hand.