+++
date = "2018-02-27T18:09:44+00:00"
title = "Accounting Basics"

+++
... read the first part of [Accounting Made Simple](https://www.amazon.ca/Accounting-Made-Simple-Explained-Pages/dp/0981454224) by Mike Piper. In this part of the book, he talks about the Financial Statements and the basics of accounting. In order to help remember, I'll write down the important parts down.

**The Accounting Equation**

There are 3 variables in this equation, the **Assets**, the **Liabilities** and the **Equity**. The Assets are what we own, the Liabilities are the debts, and the Equity is a plug figure, the left over after paying of the debts. The equation goes as follow :

    assets = liabilities + equity

However, it is often easier to understand it as :

    assets + liabilities = equity

**The Balance Sheet**

The balance sheet is basically the financial situation at a given point in it. If you were to get one for today, it only tells you what your finances look like at this very moment. It is the formal presentation of the Accounting Equation.

He also explains that the assets can consist of :

* Cash and Cash Equivalents
* Inventory
* Account receivable
* Property, equipment

He does the same for liabilities :

* Accounts payable
* Notes payable

And so does he for the equity :

* Common stock
* Retained earnings

He insists on the difference between **Current** and **Long-Term**, usually Current being assets or liabilities that will be converted to cash within 12 months, while Long-Term will last longer.

He also explains how you can do **multiple-period balance sheets** to see the difference between multiple points in time.

**The Income Statement**

The income statement consists of a statement of the incomes and expenses over a period of time. So, in contrast to the balance sheet, which is at a point in time, the income statement shows the ins and outs of money between balance sheets.

He mentions the **gross profit**, which consists of the **revenues** minus the **cost of goods sold**. He also explains the difference between **operating** incomes/expenses and the **non-operating** incomes/expenses.The difference is kind of self-explanatory, the operating consisting of consistent costs and incomes (rent, salaries), and the non-operating for special events (lawsuit settlement).

**The Statement of Retained Earnings**

The retained earnings is basically what's left when you take the **net income** minus the **dividends** paid to shareholders. What's left is that retained earnings, basically profits that haven't gone to the shareholders yet. That profit is often reinvesting. That statements serves as a bridge between the balance sheet, as it uses data from the balance sheet to calculate that and then adds the result in the income statement.

He insists that dividends should not be in another statement as they are not an expense, it's a distribution of profit. He also insists that retained earnings is not cash, as the money is probably already used for something else and can't be considered available cash.

**The Cash Flow Statement**

That statement makes it possible to see all money ins and outs, not just incomes and expenses. It tracks the actual transfers rather than the expected inflow. For instance,  an account payable is already tracked in the income statement, but it is only once the money is exchanged that it enters the cash flow statement.

There are three categories of cash flow :

* from operating activities : related to normal business operations.
* from investing activities : related to investing activities (buying/selling property, etc.)
* from financing activities : related to financing activities (dividends, paying loans, etc.)

**Financial Ratios**

Finally, he talks about several ratios regarding the different statements and how we can interpret them.

**Liquidity Ratios** allows to see how easily a company will be able to meet its short-term financial obligation. There are two equations :

    current ratio = current assets / current liabilities
    quick ratio = current assets - inventory / current liabilities

The difference between the two is that the quick ratio is basically the worst case scenario.

**Profitability Ratios** allows to see the return on assets and equity. Basically, for each equity dollars, how much does it generate more, and the same for each asset dollars. The two equations go as follow :

    return on assets = net income / total assets
    return on equity = net income / equity

He also talks about the **gross profit margin** which is basically the margin between the sales and the cost and the equation goes as follow :

    gross profit margin = sales - cost of goods sold / sales

**Financial Leverage Ratios** tell the debt and equity ratio. Basically, how much is it financing from liabilities versus equity. The two equations go as follow :

    debt ratio = liabilities / assets
    debt to equity ratio = liabilities / equity

He warns that this measure is not always the best to use because yes, the more liabilities, the more risk the business is in, but also the more return on equity it has, so it returns more to the shareholders for the same amount.

**Asset Turnover Ratios** consists of how efficiently a company uses its assets, basically at what speed can it replaces sold inventory with new one. The two most used equations are :

    inventory turnover = cost of goods sold / average inventory
    average inventory = begining invetory + ending inventory / 2
    inventory period = 365 / inventory turnover
    
    receivable turnover = credit sales / average accounts receivable
    average collection period = 365 / receivable turnover