+++
date = "2018-04-02T19:21:34+00:00"
title = "Dreams and Memories"

+++
... went to see my wife's Grand-Mother at her residence. While my wife was busy talking with the nurses about a few things, I was alone with her Grand-Mother and paid attention as much as possible to whatever she was telling me. I tried to make sens of it and understand not really what she was saying but why she was saying it.

Basically, for the past few years, her stories have been more and more difficult to follow. Sometimes, she was talking as if she was 40 years in the past, then right back to the present. It seems to be common when people age. I've been told that the best thing to do in those situations is not to contradict them but to go along with their stories, otherwise they react negatively and it's more trouble than anything.

Nevertheless, today she said a similar story about three times. Actually, she wasn't telling a story per say, she was telling me the way she goes to the grocery, the walks she takes, and why she goes at one grocery store over the other. I understood some parts regarding her waiting to cross the street with a policeman holding the pedestrian to make sure they weren't hurt by "machines", as if it was in her childhood when cars slowly became common. She talked about the places where she crosses the street, the market nearby, the two groceries, and repeated that about 3 to 4 times. In the middle of that, she promptly offered me coffee as soon as she saw someone with a cup of coffee in the hallway, and forgot it as quickly as it came to her mind. That last one was simply a trigger for a habit loop, to offer something to drink.

The interesting thing in how she told her story is how times and areas seemed to be merged together. I understood some parts that were in the past, but then she'd talk about her seeing us walking in the street every week in the very next sentence. It all seemed to make sens. She was even talking about her Daughter asking how she went to the market alone and then her reassuring her Daughter that she knows how to get there safely, as if reassuring her own Mother that was worried about it.

It all looks very much like how dreams are formed. Different places mixed with different people at the same time, all geographically distorted. I often have dreams about the house and the farm I grew up in, and then I'm talking with colleagues while at that very place, although an event of the past is taking place. You know the kind. We all do those dreams sometimes. I find them very interesting actually, because they reveal what stuck in my brain, and maybe how I'm currently feeling and how it relates to that period in time. Something had to trigger those memories, and the subconscious is simply running through things that happened recently, or recent thoughts, and it can trigger weird dreams. I always understand that I'm dreaming and kind of try to pilot them a bit although it's not really happenning. I can also have those dreams when I'm half asleep early in the morning. In any case, at those moments, I'm able to explore how those memories are merged together.

When put under the perspective of dreams, what my wife's Grand-Mother says only appears to be a dream at day. I believe the same kind of things happen in the brain while we sleep and while she is awake. After all, in a half-awoken state, I'm still able to see those dreams. The difference maybe reside in whether we are able to perceive if it's a dream or reality.