+++
date = "2018-04-28T16:42:41-04:00"
title = "Running"

+++
... have to plan my running schedule for the next few months. The reason for such planning is not that running needs planning intrinsically, it's just that I want to run a marathon this year, probably in October, so I have to get ready for such event by running and running and running.

From my past experience I have, I can't really just start running a be good to go. My heart usually improves faster than my legs due to my foot condition, flat feet. I caused some parts of my feet to not get in shape as much as others. The thing that is impacted the most is the tendons going from the front of the feet, pass under the heel, and then go behind the leg up to the knee. Those tendons are usually weaker in flat feet and more prone to injuries.

The right technique for running involves landing the feet right under the body, not in front, which can only be done by landing on the front of the feet. That's the natural way to run when not using shoes, otherwise the heel hurts too much on each step. It's also the best way to avoid knee injuries because landing on the tip of the feet means having a better absorption of the shocks from the feet to the ankle to the knees. It however put a lot of strain on the very tendons that are weak for flat feet. So, the first month, the goal is not to improve the hearth but the tendons, to not get injuries.

One of the reason minimalist shoes are getting so popular is also because they force people to use the right technique, and allow a better flexibility of the whole feet, making them stronger. With modern shoes, usually the feet are still and never really flexing a lot. All the muscles handling the different parts of the feet are at rest and getting weak. All those parts are highly important for endurance running, which is thought to be one of the reason why runners from poor countries actually are much better. Some runners even go bare foot. The only reason I wouldn't go bare foot is because of how dirty a city is and the risk of infections and what not. Minimalist shoes make sens for that very situation. However, since I am not trained yet, I can't use minimalist shoes without risking to hurt my feet.

So, starting tomorrow, I will try to run 3 times a week, without measuring my performance with any device of any kind. The goal will be to feel my performance and my body, how it goes and if I can keep going. I know that once I start feeling that iron taste at the back of my throat, it's because I'm above 165 and spending more oxygen than I can get in. I also know the feel to expect from my legs. I had issues with both tibia in the past. I also know how to stretch my legs to help with potential injuries and reinforcing my tendons. All these will also have to be done weekly, if not daily. I will also try to find exercises for my feet. As stupid as it might sound, I'm pretty sure there are some nice ways to improve them without actually needing to run. A small daily routine would be most helpful to quickly get in shape. By the end of May, I want to be able to run at least 30 minutes without too much pain. If I can't run a 5K in one shot after one month, I might not be able to do a 42 to by the end of October, so I'll use all the help I can get to reach that goal.