+++
date = "2018-06-11T19:27:07-04:00"
draft = true
title = "Licenses"

+++
... need to write down some thoughts I have about licensing. It follows a post I read on Hacker News yesterday where they talked about paying for software. The discussion went around open source, and whether an open source software means less support for issues as opposed to paid software where the developer may or may not have more incentive to fix the issues, etc. Some of the points went toward open source licenses and how you could do open source while still making some money from either donations of from selling the support of the product.

Over the past years, one method that seem to be more and more popular for open source projects is to sell the hosting and support of the open source software, with some private extra, but still leave the software open sourced for everyone to use. That unfortunately only works for applications that need hosting. A music player could hardly fit that bill in comparison. One method to be able to sell and still keep the software open sourced was GPL.

I never really liked GPL because of my only relation with licenses, through libraries we use in private projects. Most of the time, we either see MIT or Apache licenses in libraries included in a project with tools such as cargo, yarn, composer, etc. It clearly does not make sens to create a library and make it GPL, because it will barely be used and updated. Most programmers are working on closed source projects and cannot therefore use GPL libraries.

However, GPL does make sens in other situations, when the open source project in question is not a library but a full on application. Then, it does make sens to make it GPL, so it prevents others from making changes to the software but closed source, and then making a profit on the initial developer's efforts without contributions. It leaves the original developer the opportunity to sell support or hosting for his software without risking theft from others, while still leaving those who wants to use it for personal use free to do so.

So in retrospect, there is a clear distinct line between libraries that should always be something other than GPL, and full software glueing a bunch of libraries, which should be GPL.

This brought an idea that I have had for quite some times. In the four years I've been working as a web application developer, I used a lot of open source libraries. They allowed me to make interesting applications in a very short amount of time. My employer always said how they are doing "open source" yet we rarely contribute. The few open source packages we have are so trivial and minimal that they don't require support and no one really uses it as it takes little time to build it or use another similar package. Furthermore, we hardly contribute to packages. We sometimes file an issue when something goes wrong on our end. We even have those classic forks of open source with tweaks to fit our use case, without putting in the efforts to push the changes upstream. So we can't really say we do open source, but we can definitely say that we consume open source.

One idea I've have regarding that issue is to try to contribute to the projects we consume. For instance, we could dedicate a half day every week to give back to the libraries that we use the most. It's small, but if we have 10 developers doing that every week, in the end it can make a difference for a lot of projects. After all, we consume open source and expect it to be maintained and updated, while ourselves not doing much for it. This is a way to ensure that the most important libraries are getting the support needed to stay alive.

In order to help with that, considering NPM packages as an example, we could build an application that takes all the direct dependencies from a project and list how to contribute, the pending issues, the pending pull requests, etc. For instance, in the Rust repositories, issues usually have a level of difficulty tagged on them so new comers know which bugs they can tackle. Having a search tool that lists the issues of packages used could make it an easy and single hub to start contributing to the right projects. Rather than spending half a day going through repositories of libraries to find something to help on, that could be done in a few minutes.

I really think that such an application could be useful, yet difficult to build well it depends on many APIs and dependencies definitions and what not. Yet it could be a very interesting product for the open source communities and could help new comers to tackle issues.

I believe it's time for me to start contributing more on the code I depend on, and that would clearly be a nice way to see where to help.