+++
date = "2018-01-31T20:03:28+00:00"
title = "Food Psychology"

+++
... listened to the [Food for Thought](https://www.npr.org/2016/05/31/479754700/food-for-thought-the-subtle-forces-that-affect-your-appetite) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, they talk about several studies regarding food and diets with very interesting results.

They start the episode by explaining that it has been proven that we do over 200 decisions regarding food every day. It goes from whether to put more salt to having a snack. With the amount of decisions we make daily, most of them are not even conscious, they are just habits. They also explain how, while under stress, we tend to eat less healthy. So, one trick to help fight bad habits would be to pack the lunch late at night rather than in the morning, so we aren't stressed and we make better food decisions. Also, we can more easily end up packing carrots rather than cookies for snack, and once we are hungry the next day, we just reach for the snack and end up eating carrots.

They then talked about many small studies. The first one talked about having a bigger diner table to instinctively reduce portion. They proved it from pizza slices presented on bigger versus smaller tables. The group with the small table saw the small pizza slices and paid attention to it. They then served themselves more pizza. The group with the large table saw the pizza but also saw the big table and put less focus on the pizza slice size. Also, the slices didn't seem so small in themselves, they seemed small proportionally to the big table. They ended up eating less pizza.

Another study proved that who we eat with also has an impact. They studied the amount of calories intake in cafeterias relative to who you would eat with. They discovered that both men and women would eat more calories when eating with other women, but would eat less calories when eating with other men.

Yet another study showed that the time when we eat the meal is very important. We all heard people saying the breakfast is the most important meal of the day, but this study proves it. They put two groups on the exact same diet, but one group would have its biggest meal for breakfast, the second one for diner. After the same period of time, the breakfast group had lost an average of 17lbs while the diner group had lost only an average of 7lbs. So now we know it is true.

Finally, one last study that stuck in mind was one where they checked what customers would order in restaurants based on the weight of the waiter. As it turns out, the heavier the waiter, the more people tend to order, the lighter the waiter, the less. So, if you are a restaurant that makes money on the amount of dessert sold, hire heavier waiters.