+++
date = "2018-03-17T19:42:18+00:00"
draft = true
title = "TBD"

+++
... read and did many things, but I don't really want to write about that; it can be summarized as more finance stuff. What I instead want to write about is regarding this goal and my relation with my wife. I said that it feels much better than it did before and she takes care of me a lot probably due to the effort I put in. But there is also a downside to all these efforts and I want to write down my thoughts regarding those downsides and what I could do to alleviate them.

When it comes to relationships, the biggest issue with self-improvement is the "self" part. Not that it's not good to improve oneself, but it doesn't to improve the relation directly. Indirectly it might, just like it did for me. Still, all the improvements are done alone, without a stronger commitment to one-another. For instance, reading everyday doesn't include my wife in that activity. Whatever I learn doesn't include her, I'm not explaining to her what I learned. Same goes for what I write, it doesn't include her, or my meditation, or the podcast, or the cleaning for that matter. It's all solo efforts and solo activities.

The positive impacts for our relationship are things such as the fact that I'm heading somewhere in life, things are getting done in the house, our financial situation is improving, etc. The negative impacts are that I'm so focused on this, I'm neglecting her. The activity we did together ever since is watch TV, either TV Shows or movies. We used to go eat breakfast at a nearby restaurant before doing the groceries but now that she's doing the grocery by herself, we don't get that moment. We used to play World of Warcraft together a lot. We did sometimes fade away from that game as we get bored of it sometimes, but now the only time we spent on it together was during raids with 15 other people.

I guess what I'm trying to say is that I need to take care of her, not just indirectly but directly as well. Yes, I do tell her that I love her every day and I keep telling her she's beautiful, but these are words, not actions. The only action I take are always indirect. I know our relation is in a good place at the moment, but it does not mean I can't improve it as well. This afternoon, we spent a while playing together and we made breakfast together and it was fun. Maybe, Saturdays should become a "we" day, so we spend time together. I also think I should cook for her a nice meal at least once a week, and maybe dress nicely so she's happy to see me in nice clothes. She's been taking more care of me recently, I should take more care of her as well. I'm not sure what would be the best and what she'd like the most. I know that only doing once or twice isn't gonna cut it, because it always only feels like an excuse to get back to normal when things to wrong. Now the goal isn't go get back to normal, we're at normal already. It's to make it better, and only a long term change can do that.