+++
date = "2018-02-06T21:05:25+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Power Paradox"

+++
... listened to [The Perils of Power](https://www.npr.org/2016/09/06/492305430/the-perils-of-power) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, Dacher Keltner talks about the notion of power and how it might not be as we perceive it.

Whenever we think of powerful people, we think if strong and popular people. We see politicians as depicted in House of Cards, strong CEOs, Mean Girls, Machiavelli. However, Dacher Keltner explains that people who show compassion, altruism, kindness, often rise in social power. He defends this point with the fact that several studies with children in school shows that the generous, curious and open kid rises in the esteem of his fellow classmates, much more than the strong ones.

Assuming this is true, why don't we have kind, altruist and compassionate leaders? The thing is, the power corrupts is actually almost literal. They found that whenever someone is in position of power, the region of the brain where empathy is the most active is less active than in people not in that position. The diminution of the activity in this region is really observable. They took groups of people of many ranks in the society. Then would remind them of how some very rich people are successful, and as they were lower, they felt less powerful, and more empathetic. When reminded of how some a very poor, they felt more powerful, and less empathetic.

Dacher Keltner talks about other studies they replicated using drivers of different cars with pedestrian that were are a cross walk. They measure the amount of cars that would stop to let the pedestrian pass (as is the law) as opposed to those who would just keep going. They then grouped the results by price of cars. The low end cars ended up going before the pedestrian 0% of the time. However, the high end cars ended up going before the pedestrian 46% of the time. And this study has been replicated.

The result basically says, if you are a good, caring, open person, you'll eventually become socially powerful, and through this power, you'll become less good, less caring, less of an open person, and that's not something you can control.