+++
date = "2018-03-01T20:36:32+00:00"
draft = true
title = "The Rich Don't Work For Money"

+++
... read the chapter The Rich Don't Work For Money from the book [Rich Dad Poor Dad](http://www.lequydonhanoi.edu.vn/upload_images/S%C3%A1ch%20ngo%E1%BA%A1i%20ng%E1%BB%AF/Rich%20Dad%20Poor%20Dad.pdf) by Robert T. Kiyosaki. This chapter is about the first on six lessons Robert learned from his Rich Dad. Although it has one lesson, there are several smaller points to it.

The first part is where Robert was working for 10 cents an hour for the Rich Dad. He started doing that because he asked Rich Dad to teach him how to make money. The Rich Dad decided to make him work a lowly job for very few cents to teach him a first thing, that life pushes us around. Some people give up and just quit rather than be pushed, some other fight back, and some learn the lesson. He talks about when he confronted his Rich Dad for not paying him fairly, stating that he was using him and not holding his part of the deal. The thing is, Robert was blaming his Rich Dad for not paying him enough, he was angry at him for that, but it had nothing to do with his Rich Dad but the choices he made himself. That was an example of life pushing us around. We can either give up by quitting when it gets too hard, or we can blame others for not giving us what we need, or we can understand that it's actually just life being life, and stop blaming others for it.

The conversation then moved toward what to do from there. Either keep complaining that he wasn't paid enough and quit. Then trying to find a better job with a higher pay, thinking that it will solve the problem. Or accept the lowly pay and keep working in the expectation of a pay raise, thinking more money will solve the problem. That's when he said that the poor and middle class work for money, but the rich have money work for them.

It goes a little further in the story where they actually keep working but for nothing now. After a while, the Rich Dad talks to them again. He told Robert and Mike about those who wake up early, go to work, get back home, just to make enough money to survive, waiting for the three week vacation. That if that life interest them, he'll start paying them 25 cents an hour for the same job now. They both declined. He then offered them 1 dollar an hour. Then 2 dollars, then 5 dollars. Through that, he was trying to teach them about desires, about things we dream of having, always bigger, endless needs creating themselves before us.

Basically, the thing he tries to have us understand from this first chapter is how we are actually pushed in life thinking we need more money to feel better. That we go after money because we fear not having enough money, or we think about what we could afford with more money thinking we'll be happier with that. More money doesn't solve the problem of the relation with money. What drives us toward are emotions we aren't even honest about. Why are we really waking up early every day to work? To pay the bills. What do we do once we get a raise on get a bonus? We think about the big thing we'll be able to buy for ourselves. Once we get it, we still crave for more. What we need to learn to handle money better isn't how to make more of it, it is how that need comes from emotions and that we should learn to control these emotions rather than be controlled by them. Those who let their emotions control them are working for money, those who control them have money work for them.