+++
date = "2018-02-17T20:12:30+00:00"
title = "The Plan 1.3"

+++
... reflected a bit more about The Plan. I believe that doing a retrospective once in a while helps with staying on track and staying motivated in the long run. After all, the goal is self improvement, so negative changes must not stay. I seem to be requiring a retrospective every 2 weeks, which appear to be a decent period of time to feel changes.

First of all, the exercise part does not work for me. The first week with the running, I did run 3 times but one of those times was a different day than the one I planed initially. The second week was way worse, I only ran once, and not on the initially planed day. I feel forced to do something to stay active other than bouldering. Maybe that's not the right way.

Second, I've been feeling so tired lately that I took off 2 days in the past 2 weeks. I also fell asleep again after waking up to my alarm and got up 30 minutes later than expected. That usually means I'm not getting enough sleep. I think I went to bed a little later the last week, but still tried to wake up at the same time. I also probably miss some hours every day and eventually build up a sleep debt. The issue with a sleep debt is you have interest on them. If you lack 5 hours of sleep over the week, it's not by sleeping 5 more hours on the week end that you'll get back on track, it's by sleeping more than 5 extra hours. Maybe taking naps. For several days. So I can't build up a sleep debt.

In terms of meditation, I noticed that I had an easier time sticking to the timer for the whole duration, not moving. I also started to see my dreams going on in the background while meditating; thoughts that made no sens appearing by themselves. It is interesting and I will continue meditation to keep improving on that aspect.

The podcast keeps providing me with very interesting knowledge that I keep trying to apply every day. I learned a lot and still want to learn more. I hope that it will slowly become more obvious and that I'll be able to use that knowledge every day. Similarly, the reading has been very helpful to learn on many different topics which have almost all been useful with my self improvement. So that shouldn't get out either.

The cleaning up has freed up time on the week ends and I feel better at home because of how clean it is. It's still a bit messy, but the trash is always taken care of, same for the dishes and the clothes. Those three things are the most basic cleaning parts to do and they have always been a chore I'd do on the weekend because I had to. Now instead, they are gradually being done, to a point where some days I wonder what I could clean because it's already clean.

What I'm left with is my entertainment. I didn't play much of World of Warcraft for the past week. I was already fading away from the game, and even stopped raiding with my friends to stick to the plan more easily (it was causing me to sleep too late). Now they asked me to come back and made changes that will be good for my enjoyment of the game. Therefore I'll get back to it but not play too much. I also picked up an old game. I played EVE Online several times but never stuck to it more than a week days/weeks. This time around, I want to learn more about it and find a nice way to enjoy it without it eating all my time. That would mean having a way to progress over the week and have some time to play it on the week end. Trading, as I wrote in previous posts, will probably be that way.

So, the only thing I want to remove is my exercise. I believe I need sleep more than I need exercise for the near future. I still want to get back to running long distance next summer, maybe doing my third half-marathon, or maybe my first marathon. But I can think about that in late April/early May. I will also try to wake up later, at 6 AM rather than 5 AM. The meditation will still occur, then getting ready for work and listening to a podcast. Considering that, I should be at work at about 8 AM, which would give me 4 hours of work in the morning. I should be able to get back from work at about 4:30 PM, leaving me a good half hour of cleaning up, then food while watching some TV. I should have an easy time to fit in 30 minutes of reading. If I successfully force myself to do this before login back on EVE Online or whatever game I'm playing at that time, I should be able to do it more easily. Then, if I go to bed no later than 10 PM, ideally 9 PM, I should get a full 8 to 9 hours of sleep.