+++
date = "2018-03-18T14:22:20+00:00"
title = "Investing Strategies Validation"

+++
... listened to [The 'DNA approach' to trading with Bruce Vanstone](http://bettersystemtrader.com/the-dna-approach-to-trading-with-bruce-vanstone/) episode of the Better System Trader podcast. In this episode, they talk about the several good practices for trades and his methods.

One of the reason he explains for the type of trading he's doing is that he doesn't have much time to do trades and he searched for a method that could be good and require little time. As an academic, he searched for an academically proven method, which turns out to be based on momentum. Momentum can be summed up to the fact that whatever is in an upward trend tend to stay in that upward trend. In opposition, whatever is in a downward trend then to stay in a downward trend. That kind of trade involves making decision maybe once a month to watch where things are at and update trades accordingly. Other than that, it does not care for the short swings and focuses on the big picture.

He insists on the fact that a trading strategy should be rigorously validated through data and academic. For instance, if you have several rules in your strategy and making a 15% rate, and then you change something in the rules and make 16%. Has the rule been used by other people or is just a one time deal? Is the result reproducible? Is it academically credible? Was the change really what made the increase or did something else also happen? In fact, he insists that many of those questions should be answered before applying the strategy and that the strategy in question should be constantly watched to confirm if it works. He also warns against wrongfully believing the strategy does not work when in fact it's just the market that is not going well.

So, what I understand from that is that the strategy used should be validated somehow, but we should not believe that a current loss is proof that the strategy doesn't work, and that instead it should be put in context with the timeframe on which it's built before really judging its validity. Nevertheless, it should be academically credible, that is that it's not just a wild guess or a supposition or just for the sake of trying something different.

What I get from that is that I'll have to learn and develop many strategies over the next few years to understand what to do with my money and how to split all of this before even starting. So far, I am still really lost with all there is to learn. I've been at it for several day and yet I'm still feeling as if I am going left and right not knowing which road to take. I'll try and write down everything in a more Cartesian way to help clarify my thoughts and see it through a more structured way.