+++
date = "2018-03-29T20:06:22+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Memorization"

+++
... started reading [Moonwalking With Einstein](https://www.amazon.com/Moonwalking-Einstein-Science-Remembering-Everything/dp/0143120530/ref=as_sl_pc_qf_sp_asin_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=ed04a2458b6b056f6788ee21e5ceb646&creativeASIN=0143120530) by Joshua Foer. I only read the very first chapter where he presents the subject of memory training and the memory championships.

Unlike what we'd think, memory training has once been a heavily practiced discipline that got lost with writing and even more so with the digital age. Before printing book was a thing, people had to remember the books they could read because of how rare they were, if they even were able to find a book. Everything people knew depended on their memory, so they had to be good at it. Teaching was initially about how to remember things, and then to learn those things to remember.

Once printing came to be, remembering wasn't as important. The education system probably also changed to not focus so much on remembering things but instead on how to find things. For instance, nowadays, the people that get ahead at the ones with great Google skills. Anyone can ask me anything, and I'll be quick to find the answer somewhere. Will I remember it, probably not. Certainly not if I really don't care about the subject in the first place. The way we learn is focused much more on how to find things, or by repeating something over and over until we remember it. Instead, it says in the first chapter, we should understand how memory works and learn techniques to use that memory efficiently.

Maybe remembering decks of cards is not the best way to become better at something, but it forces to learn techniques to remember things that can eventually become very important in everyday life. It was claimed in [Deep Work](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1455586692/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1455586692&linkCode=as2&tag=grochat-20&linkId=656f46ccb19aebc7272ca0e4e2c18441) that learning to memorize a deck of card helps with focus because you must be entirely focused on the deck of card to memorize it. So, maybe it seem stupid, but it might add value to learn to do such things.

I'm also surprised about the claims of the long lost technique. In [The Information](https://www.amazon.com/Information-History-Theory-Flood/dp/1400096235/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=e48580357e6f14c74f34f8969f58d5d7&creativeASIN=1400096235), they talk about all the method of transportation of information, starting with the invention of writing to the bits. It talks about Socrates who was against writing because people would stop having to think and memorize things. The same thing was said when radio appeared, with printing, and now with internet. I was constantly thinking that those changes are only another step in the evolution of how we handle knowledge, but it also means putting behind some very strong parts of our brain that are still very useful today. Maybe I can find anything on internet and Google skills are very important, but when I can remember things that are difficult to find, or knowledge that isn't searchable at all, memory becomes very handy.

I think I already have a decent memory. I remember a lot things, I can output commands and remember stuff I coded a long time ago and know where it's at. But I don't remember everything. I have a few natural methods. For instance, I'm very good with numbers and most of the time, I put number on things. To remember a grocery list, I don't remember the objects, I remember the amount of objects, and divides the total of objects by areas in the grocery store I'm gonna go to, so I get sub-numbers. It's a form of divide and conquer. Sometimes, I still forget what that 3rd item was in this row, but I know there was another item. For most other things, I usually remember them when I can form a structure from the information I have. For instance, when I can form a graph of the relation between a virtual machine, an orchestration, a container, and application. To get to that point, I need to understand it very well, so I can clearly see that picture. As long as the knowledge is not good enough,  I can't see that graph and all I get is a grey cloud. I think both of these things are some kind of memorization techniques I naturally developed. I think I should try to learn to memorize a deck of card, just to learn another technique that applies for things I can't quantify or things I can't schematize easily.