+++
date = "2018-01-17T18:43:06+00:00"
title = "Neo4j"

+++
... tried the [Neo4j](https://neo4j.com/) graph database using their [docker container](https://hub.docker.com/_/neo4j/). I was impressed at how light the image actually was and how easy it was to start a test version of the database.

As soon as you boot the database, you can open a GUI that allows you to query it, basically the equivalent of a MySQL CLI. They also added a lot of nice helper methods that run you through the application and help you get introduced to the concept of graph database. For instance, they have a page with a hello world and many small scripts that allow you to start learning about their system. The GUI is very nice as it allows you to actually see the graph of data you are querying and consult it in different format. There seem to be a lot of utilities including statistics about the database, watching queries, managing users, accesses and configs, and exchanging scripts. I also checked their javascript client library that connects over their bolt protocol and can work from the browser through websockets.

I still haven't had much time to dabble into the concept of a graph DB though. On the first surface, it looks like any node you add is a single entry with its own structure. It's basically like how any object can be of any form in a NoSQL database. Then, you can have relations between the node, also containing their own structure. I believe the nodes could be compared to an entry in an SQL table, but each row is its own table with its own schema. Labels seem to be a way to manage similar nodes with identical fields and create indexes to retrieve them better. I believe the relations could be compared to joint tables with additional keys as wanted, with each row being its own table with its own schema as well.

It seems to be far off the relational model, but the implication of having a graph of relation as opposed to a simple NoSQL model without anyway such relation looks very interesting, even more so for data scientists who can actually work and visualize the data. It seem like a very good read model. As for the relations we get in a relational model, they are expressed through foreign key and do not give the context of the relation through a verb like they can do in the graph model.