+++
date = "2018-04-20T19:26:21-04:00"
title = "Controller Reward"

+++
... haven't done anything at all in terms of learning. I spent the whole morning trying to test the last fix I did (the one with the iterator and generator) and couldn't figure what wasn't working until I figure it wasn't logging the error nicely and I only had a dangling comma in an SQL query. Then I had to figure out why something that's being tested by users worked last week but no longer work this week only to notice that the data set it's based on is not with the same structure anymore so I was pissed and worked my ass off to figure out a work around.

However, I did something else to reward myself. I decided to buy myself an XBOne controller for PC to play games with a controller. The reason is that some games I have on Steam work better with a controller, while others work better with a keyboard and mouse. I could play them all with a keyboard and mouse, sure, but I'm also having a lot of problems with my shoulders. Furthermore, the chair I have is really not adjustable. It's a very old office chair I got for 25 bucks 10 years ago. One of the armrest broke off (the bolt literally broke in half) so I have been resting one arm and not the other. Furthermore, they never even were high enough for my arms to be high enough for the desk so anyway I have to raise my arms for the mouse and keyboard. So, the controller makes sens because this way I can rest my hands on my thighs while playing with a controller, which gives a break to my shoulders.

I tried to remove the second armrest as it was causing my right arm to always be held up higher than my left arm, but once I sat down, I learn that the whole base of the chair depends on the armrest being bolted on the chair. So it was only holding together because of three small rusty bolts on the right armrest anyway. Because of that, I'm now on a wooden chair and hope I will be able to afford a new chair soon enough. My biggest issue is I do not want to get a cheap chair, I really want to have something that will last me, but it also means spending more to get one.