+++
date = "2018-02-21T20:40:59+00:00"
title = "Fox And Hedgehog"

+++
... listened to [The Fox and the Hedgehog](https://www.npr.org/2017/05/15/528041635/the-fox-and-the-hedgehog-the-triumphs-and-perils-of-going-big) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, they talk about the famous sentence from the Greek poet Archilochus, "the fox knows many things, but the hedgehog knows one big thing." They talk about it based on the understanding of psychologist Phil Tetlock who says it helps to understand two distinct cognitive styles.

The fox is when people think with different strategies and adapt as they go. They handle nuance, they do compromise, they can play with contradictions. In one of the story they tell to explain the difference, there is a person being asked whether she is 100% sure of what she's asking for. She replied she was 99.9% sure, because we're only human, we can't be 100% sure. That would be a fox, working with nuances.

The hedgehog is when someone focuses only on the big picture, and every problem ends up being about that big picture and every solution for that big picture. They say in MBA programs, that's the kind of person that would be considered better leaders. They talk with Don Laub, who is a hedgehog in the way it is described here. He's the one that asked whether the person was 100% in, and declined to pursue because she wasn't 100%, only 99.9%. The hedgehog sees one big picture and follows it.

Don was a young surgeon that only wanted to do a big thing and help a lot of people. That was his big picture. In the late 60s, while he was still in Standford I believe, he met with a patient that wasn't the right sex, and asked them to help with a sex change operation. Don became one of the most important surgeon developing this. He didn't question whether it would be ethical. He asked whether he was doing something big that would help a lot of people.

When we look at hedgehogs of the world, we can see either very big successes, or very big failures, because hedgehogs have only one goal and don't adapt. If they head toward a wall, they will until they hit it. We can clearly see that some very big influential minds are working like that. Think about Steve Jobs for instance. I wonder whether there are such influential foxes around that I'm not noticing? I wonder whether I am one or the other? I believe I am more fox than hedgehog, but sometimes I have a big picture in mind and I keep pushing it and keeping it close, but I don't force it when it's not time yet.