+++
date = "2018-02-02T19:38:17+00:00"
title = "Go Dependency Management"

+++
... started to build the same proof of concept I worked on already but using Go lang this time. As I never actually coded in Go, only read about it, I had to set up my environment before starting the proof of concept. Turns out there is plenty in terms of IDE and editor supports, so I was able to get up everything I needed from a single Atom plugin.

I already had the Go compiler installed locally so I didn't have to fiddle with that part. I simply created my directory in that GOPATH. I made sure I could compile a hello world and then checked for a websocket library. And that's when I figured how dependency management works in Go lang... There's none by default. As in, you check a Go lang project and try to figure out its dependencies... well, you'll most likely have to read the source code.

Basically, how it works is also tied to the GOPATH. What Go lang says is all the code should live in the same place, the GOPATH. That includes all dependencies as well. When you add an external dependency, you put "import "github.com/username/repo"" in your file. When you compile the code, go will fetch the master branch of that repo at compile time and just use that. It will place it in the GOPATH  as well. So, if you have two dependencies using the same third dependency at different version, or different projects using the same dependencies at different version, good luck with that, we're back at global dependencies. If you do not want global dependency, the Go lang team suggest including a vendor folder with copies of the dependencies straight in the repo!

That's just unbelievable for such a recent language. With NodeJS, you had NPM from the start, handling your dependencies in a nice package.json file where you could see everything and even pin versions. Yarn came a bit after but it uses everything the same way with the additional feature of locking all dependencies with a lock file. The same thing exists even for PHP now, with composer. And Rust built Cargo and Crates.io with the language to have a nice dependency management.

Many saw this as an issue, so there are many different dependency management tools available for Go now, the biggest one being dep, based off of godep. It is the most stared tool on Github with only 7K as of yet. And it is a bit weird. It has only one command, "dep ensure". All it does is check four things: the Gopkg.toml file, the Gopkg.lock file, the vendor directory, and the source code. It makes sure that they are all in sync, but not really. If you do "dep ensure -add github.com/username/repo" (notice the unconventional single - for the param), it will add that in the Gopkg.toml file. All good so far. But if you run "dep ensure" again before writing "import "github.com/username/repo"" in the source code, it will say "hey, there's a dependency I'm not really using, let's remove it from the Gopkg.toml file". Amazing right? Oh and get this, if you add "import "github.com/username/repo"" in the source code and run "dep ensure", it won't add it to the Gopkg.toml file, but it will still put it in the vendor and use it. So you can still have rogue dependencies in your code pulling from master without any single source file telling you what dependencies are used.

Also, keep in mind that since it works with repos, it works with branches, not tags (why not?) or semver. So you can't pin to a version, you have to pin to a branch. You can't tell it "keep me up to date with patches but not majors and minors", you just have to find a branch and track it. At least, the Gopkg.lock file pins on the exact commit hash of the selected branch, so you are sure not to get rogue updates.

Oh and finally, one really fun thing is, most dependency management tools seem to actually fiddle with the GOPATH behind the scene: they change the GOPATH to the local project temporarily so that you have local dependencies rather than global dependencies, just for the duration of the build.

Maybe I'm a too negative regarding Golang, but I honestly don't understand how they built such a complicated ecosystem for some parts of the lang. They made amazing things, the routines, the channels, even things like gofmt so we can actually not fight over code style and just code. But they really have made weird choices when it comes to dependencies, and I really don't get why they made those choices.