+++
date = "2018-03-28T20:39:12+00:00"
title = "What to Learn Next"

+++
... thought about what to learn. It's easy to learn something new every day, but it's better to learn something worthy. In order to know what's worth learning, you have to ask yourself what it brings you and how much you enjoy that subject. If it's not bringing you anything useful but you really enjoy it a lot, you still get something out of it. Those could be trivia knowledge for instance. If it helps you greatly but you hate it to no end, you also still get something out of it, but the lack of enthusiasm reduces the likeliness of remembering any of it. To really improve at something, you have to find a good balance, and ideally the highest of both.

That brings me to what I'm currently targeting, the finance stuff. It really brought me a lot, but I don't really enjoy it after all. I've learned quite a lot in the past month or so, but now I'm mostly at the investment parts in terms of what to learn, but only still at the budgeting and debt paying part in what I can do. What I'm learning from investing right now is marginally useful as I can't apply it yet, and I'll most likely will have to learn it again soon.

There are other subjects I've been wanting to tackle. One of them is learning to play piano, which should come by the end of the year if I do every post until then. The other is learning a new language, not just to know a language but to expand the way I think. There is a theory in linguistic that says that you can only think in ways your language allows you to think. There are also theories about how you can start to think differently when you know many languages.

For those who learned a second language, you probably remember how at first you would think in your native language, and then translate it to the other language, and then say it. Eventually, you got better and you were able to think in the second language and skip the translation part. The next step is probably more difficult with only two languages but it's the part where instead you think in concepts rather than words and you output those concepts in however they can be expressed for the current language. Each language has its own way to expressing things. Quite often, I have ideas I can't express easily in French but can say very easily in English, and vice versa. That leads me to believe there is some part of truth in that theory and learning a third language with a very different paradigm could open new ways to express my ideas.

I've been thinking about one of Icelandic, Russian, Mandarin, Korean or Norwegian. The Mandarin could be the most useful of all, also the most different and most difficult. All others have different alphabet and ways to form sentences. Icelandic is very old, almost like old Norse. Korean is very young and thoughtful. I do not know which to tackle first. I don't want to pick one yet, and once I start, I want to spend at least one hour every day working on it. This way I'll learn quicker and it'll stick better.

Until I know what to learn, the next best thing is to learn to remember. I already have a good memory, but I believe I can make it stronger but learning to do a mind palace. So, rather than not learning anything until I choose one, I'll read Moonwalking With Einstein, a book about The Art and Science of Remembering Everything. I don't expect it to change my way that much, but I hope it will improve upon what I already naturally do, such as remembering the grocery list by having numbers placed in areas of the store. This alone could make everything I learn after more worthy simply for the fact that I'd remember more of what I learn.

Lastly, one concept that could also work with the mind palace is to work on the art of deduction. It's not really about being able to understand everything happening à la Sherlock, but rather to be more mindful of what's around me and what it tells me about people and things. I've noticed that sometimes I'd get home and know exactly what my wife did simply by seeing something somewhere. I'd instantly knew how that happened and what she did, even if it wasn't something usual. I believe that can be useful to communicate with others. 

Another example I have that I still remember is when someone was getting at the crosswalk and I saw the coffee cup he had in his hand. I knew from that coffee cup that if I'd be on his right side waiting for the sign, we'd cross path once the walk sign would be on, but not if I were on his left. Simply because he had to cross the street from where he bought that coffee to get where he was at and logically would not cross the other way, like I was about to, again. So I knew I'd better stand on his left side. That sounds very trivial, but it's those small things that I'd like to notice more.