+++
date = "2018-01-07T17:35:55+00:00"
title = "The Plan"

+++
... received the book [Deep Work](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1455586692/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1455586692&linkCode=as2&tag=grochat-20&linkId=656f46ccb19aebc7272ca0e4e2c18441) by Cal Newport and I started reading it. I haven't got far enough yet to talk much about it. The only thing I can say is that the subject is introduced from anecdotes about authors, psychologists, computer scientists, etc., that have been doing pretty much what Cal Newport describes as Deep Work.

As I read the book, I will try to change my behavior. I tried many times to do daily meditation but always stopped after about a week or two. I also tried removing negative behaviors, rather than adding new ones, expecting that out of boredom I would add new better behavior. Those negative behaviors are things like browsing Facebook, Hacker News, YouTube, etc. I failed at that as well after a while.

This daily blog has so far been the thing I stick to the most. So, in order to change some of my behaviors and succeed at it, I decided to commit by updating a page on this blog daily, with whether I succeeded at each habit I want to change. I do not know whether I should count those behaviors in my daily post reward as well, so I'll reflect on that as I try it.

The goals are :

* No Facebook, YouTube, Hacker News, Twitch, etc.
* No Google Analytics.
* Meditation for 15 to 30 minutes.
* One podcast episode.
* Reading for 30 to 60 minutes.

It does not remove playing video games or watching TV Shows, but usually, those are not taking all my attention for too long. Video games are my way to spend time with friends, and TV Shows are my way to spend time with my wife. Facebook, YouTube, Hacker News and Twitch on the other hand are all things I browse to see if there's something interesting to read/watch, and about 99% of the time the answer is no, and I keep on browsing. It's the equivalent of zapping the TV until there's something good enough, and it brings no value to life.

Starting tomorrow, I will have a page on which I track my successes and failures regarding those goals, and I'll see if I can stick to them.
