+++
date = "2018-02-22T19:59:47+00:00"
draft = true
title = "TBD"

+++
... reflected on my relationship with money. I've known for quite some time that my relationship money is not good and that I need to change it. To change it, I believe I need to do something really different with it, to look at it from a new angle where instead of being red, it's green.

For the past years, I've slowly accumulated debts that I have a hard time to pay off. I know I have debts to pay, but I'm having a very difficult time to lowering them. One thing I noticed is that I would spend less when I wasn't looking at how much there was in my account. Not knowing forced me to do mental tally and I would always put a lower amount in my head, so I would always end up believing there was less money left in my account then there actually was. The downside is by thinking less about it, I'm also not thinking about what I have to pay and I forget and pay late and pay interests.

As I started doing trading on EVE Online, I ended up using a software giving me daily results of trades I made, what was my balance, my assets, my escrow and my pending trades. I'm enjoy it a lot and constantly check where the numbers are, how much it grew over the day, etc. I believe that having the pile grow up and watching it grow up is a good motivation to keep working to make it bigger, as opposed to making it less red.

There are many things that I want to learn about money. I want to better understand how to do a good budget and stick to it. It will be part of my plan to keep track of everything I spend money on. I will also have to keep track of the debts I have, and the investments I have. I will also want to learn to invest, what kind of investment I should go for, how much should I invest for each types of plan, whether I should manage some and how to manage some of them myself.

I already started reading and talking about it today. Two things that could be useful very quickly is the [Envelope System](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Envelope_system) and the [Snowball method](https://www.daveramsey.com/blog/get-out-of-debt-with-the-debt-snowball-plan) for debts. With those two tools, I could end up having a better control of where the money goes and keep it tighter. Maybe, if I get focused on it, I could turn it around rather quickly. I'm not in trouble, I'm not getting in more debts, I'm just staying afloat, not getting any better, and I want to change that.