+++
date = "2018-04-04T19:56:08+00:00"
title = "Memory Categories"

+++
... read The Most Forgetful Man In The World chapter of [Moonwalking With Einstein](https://www.amazon.com/Moonwalking-Einstein-Science-Remembering-Everything/dp/0143120530/ref=as_sl_pc_qf_sp_asin_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=ed04a2458b6b056f6788ee21e5ceb646&creativeASIN=0143120530) by Joshua Foer. In this chapter, the author goes to the opposite of memory but exploring the extreme of forgetfulness. Most of the chapter is about the man known as EP in psychology. I already mentioned him from The Power of Habit where his case was used to understand habits more thoroughly. In this chapter however, they spend a lot more time figuring out how memory works, all the different types of memory there is, etc.

First of all, they specify two distinct categories of memory, the declarative memory and the non-declarative memory. The first category is what we consciously know such as our favorite color, and the second category is what we don't know we know, such as how to ride a bike. The distinction is important because cognitively, they don't pass through the same process. As we learned in The Power of Habit, the non-declarative memory can still form for someone that can no longer learn anything new due to brain damage.

Of the second category, there exists two types : the semantic memory, and the episodic memory. The distinction is rather simple. Semantic memory is about facts such as breakfast is the first meal of the day. Episodic memory is about events, such as what I ate for breakfast. The distinction is important because only episodic memory is linked to time, and apparently that causes them to go through a different neural pathway than semantic memory.

The most interesting reflection there was regarding memory through this chapter has to do with episodic memory. I always had my own theory of why time seems to pass by much faster as we grow older, by assuming that since the brain is limited in size, the time length our brain can comprehend is of a rather fixed size. Say you are 2 years old, 1 year represents 50% of that total time length. At 50, 1 year represents only 2% of that same time length. This could explain why 1 year seems to pass so much faster as we grow older.

However, this book talks about another explanation for this phenomenon. The concept is about how the brain remembers time in relation to episodic memory. We always remember by placing events on a timeline. Event X happened right before event Y and then there was event Z. Each important moment we recall is linked to the previous ones and the next ones. The less events there are, the faster the time seem to pass. The more events there are, the slower time seem to pass. The interesting thing about this view of time is how we can have an impact on it by making our life more interesting, with more events.

In order to know whether this theory holds, I'll try to pay attention to what happened on days that went by very quickly as opposed to days that went by rather slowly. Although the concept seem interesting, from what I recall, long days are rather boring days while short days are the most fun. I'll also see through this writing experiment whether that holds true with long term memories. For instance, today is the exact 4 month anniversary of this big endeavor. Does it feel like a lot happened for only 4 months? Yes. Does it feel like time goes by slower than prior to that? I have yet to figure it out. Maybe once I look back on everything and refresh the timeline, I will feel like the year took a while. But maybe I will feel like it went crazy fast.