+++
date = "2018-02-25T18:42:22+00:00"
title = "Living Organizations"

+++
... read the Listening to Evolutionary Purpose chapter of the [Reinventing Organizations](https://www.amazon.com/Reinventing-Organizations-Frederic-Laloux/dp/2960133501/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=16863a1649df82b5cc3f9efbc9aa1103&creativeASIN=2960133501) book by Frederic Laloux. In this chapter, he writes about the purpose of the organizations, the strategies, decision making, competition, growth, profit, planning, budgeting, change, etc. It looks at how Evolutionary-Teal organizations handle each and how it differs from Achiever-Orange organizations.

The purpose is the start of it all. It's what drives everything down. They propose an experiment regarding that purpose, often called the mission. Go around and ask people in an organization what the mission is. Frederic Laloux says that he nearly always gets a blank stare in return, some head scratching, half-baked answers, etc. Even CEOs have a hard time answering that question. That's because missions aren't very much a thing in orange organizations. They put some words out there but they actually never use them to make decisions. Since the purpose isn't what drives decision in orange organizations, what's left is fear; people see the world as dangerous with competitors everywhere trying to take the market for themselves. So, the organizations take every opportunity they have to make more profit and gain market shares to survive.

In teal organizations, it is very different. The purpose actually guides the decision. Every body knows what that mission is. In fact, in teal organizations, the recruitment process makes sure that the new employees share a common purpose with the organization, so they work together to reach and achieve it. But who decides what the purpose of the organization is? Actually, no one does. The organization does. Because the organization is a living thing, it has a mind of its own. It adapts to situations without needing one person up top to tell it what to do. It is just like a living cell with independent things going on with a common purpose defined by how each part of the cell feel and think. In contrast, in the orange view, an organization is not a living organism but a machine that needs to be cranked and controlled from up top.

The whole chapter comes down to that distinction, the fact that teal organizations are treating the organization as a living thing that has its own moods, desires, motivations, and that we need to learn to listen to it and adapt. With that belief comes the believe that we can't plan too far in the future, budgets are only a way to control, that competition is not really a thing, that profit is just a side effect, that change is a constant in how things go. It radically changes the view of how an organization should be.
