+++
date = "2018-06-21T10:09:00-04:00"
draft = false
title = "Decentralized"

+++
... spent some more time thinking about the decentralized model for the web. It comes from the event around the Bender videos being blocked on YouTube and their attempt at using PeerTube, a decentralized equivalent to YouTube. It made me think a bit about how that model can be used and how it is already used on the web today.

Many apps similar to PeerTube in concepts already exists, such as Diaspora\*, Mastodon or Friendica. They all have the same concept of allowing the user to choose where his account and data is stored, while still being part of a big network. The way they usually work is the application is available for anyone to install and configure on a server, and then it connects to the existing network of all the other servers. They share metadata regarding how to communicate, so everyone can talk to each other, even if they aren't on the same server. This way, there is no single server that holds everything and you can select the one you trust to keep your data. You can even host one yourself if you don't trust any.

It is even more interesting when you realize that they actually communicate through standardized protocols (except for Diaspora\*). They are almost all migration to the ActivityPub protocol, which means they can all communicate together. You can register on a Friendica server and have access to all the other servers using the same protocols.

All this is nice, but aside from videos and social platforms, what is there that is decentralized? I started to think about what I actually do on the web, and how truly decentralized can that be. I mostly browse news sites, so that doesn't really matter. I don't really post on social media platforms. I use Facebook messenger to communicate with many people because it is convenient for them. I have emails to subscribe to services, I have Github for my source code. I suppose I could self host my own Git repository, but then I'd have to also find a server I trust for backups. Could I switch to a self hosted email? From what I understand, it is a PITA to self host emails. Could I self host my media consumption? Not really. Same goes for my video games.

Furthermore, how to host those things to be as decentralized as it can be? I mean, if everyone hosts his version of the server on AWS, Azure or GCP, how decentralized is that? Should I simply build a home server if I want to host one myself?

Overall, I really like the ideas regarding the decentralization. It fits with my fear of depending too much on a few small services and actually putting myself at risk through that. I doubt I can afford to have everything decentralized, and the emails are still a big issue. My communication are never through emails, mostly through chats, so I'm not worried too much regarding that. I'm mostly concerned with the fact that my emails are a single point of failure for all other accesses.