+++
date = "2018-04-19T18:39:16-04:00"
title = "Iterator and Generators"

+++
... finished a refactor that involved two types of objects that are rarely used but give an interesting result on how they behave. The first method is to create an iterator class to be able to easily go over a set of data. The second is to yield results which creates a generator that also allows to loop over a set of data but without the overhead of creating a whole class.

The first thing I did is an iterator over an XML file. The issue with XML files is that as soon as they are over 50Mb, it becomes a lot less efficient to load it all as a SimpleXMLElement than it is to read it gradually with an XMLReader. The XMLReader is actually just a pointer on a node, and from there you can do operations such as getting the node as a string and then parse it as a SimpleXMLElement. The XML I had to read was very simple, a single initial node with a lot of item nodes inside it, so no complex data.

The iterator was a wrapper over the XMLReader that allowed me to easily abstract the navigation between nodes. I had to first do the rewind method that would simply create the XMLReader and move to the very first item node. Next I had to do the current that would read the outer XML of the node and parse it to a DTO. Next I had to do the next method that would simply tell the XMLReader to move the pointer to the next node of the same name. As for the key method, I simply kept an index to know at which item in the file I currently was at, but I haven't used it. Finally, the way the iterator stops is whenever the valid method returns false. To do so, I simply returned whether the name of the current node was the node I was looking for. Once the XMLReader reaches the end, that's no longer the case so it stops there.

Once all this is done, looping over an XML and get DTOs out is a matter of creating a new iterator with the file path, and then do a foreach over it. It makes for a very lean way to write the logic surrounding the usage of the XML data, and you never have more than a single node in memory at once (and in specific objects instead of associative arrays so you save about 30% memory usage on that as well).

For the generator part, it involved reading a lot of data from a database and looping over each results also transformed to DTOs. In order to have the logic testable, the query is in a repository that can be mocked. Usually, you simply load all the rows in an array and return it, so then you can loop over in your logic. Instead, what I did is once the DTO was creating with each row of the results, I did a yield which returns the results and waits until a next is called. It basically is an auto-generated iterator somehow. It then makes it possible to call a store that returns multiple results but instead of loading everything in memory, it slowly moves the cursor and the code loops over the generator.

Both methods allow for very lean and simple logic with the cruft of reading data hidden away from the logic. Neither loads too much information in memory, which not only eats RAM (not a big deal), but also slows down the process when it gets too big (looking at you big XML file). I could probably have done the XMLReader using a generator instead of an iterator, but I would have hidden it in a class anyway, so the iterator made sens. Also, both methods are making it easy to unit test the consumer code without having too many mocks.