+++
date = "2018-01-23T19:09:43+00:00"
title = "Originals"

+++
... listened to the [Originals](https://www.npr.org/2016/03/01/468574494/originals-how-to-spot-one-how-to-be-one) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. On this episode, Adam Grant, author of the book [Originals](https://www.amazon.ca/Originals-How-Non-Conformists-Move-World/dp/0525429565), explains who comes up with great ideas and what we can do to have more of them.

He starts of by telling the story of students who came to him with an idea and they asked him if he wanted to invest. They were six months into the project, about to release, and they didn't even have their website ready. He declined, and now Warby Parker is a very successful company worth billions. These students were originals.

Adam Grant goes on to explain several characteristics of originals. He says that they often procrastinate, which might sound like a down side, but it gives them more time to incubate ideas. If you know the [Lindy Effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lindy_effect), you also know that the longer an idea survives, the longer its life expectancy. It allows them to reflect better on how worthy an idea is before going to the world with it. Nike spent seven years selling shows from the trunk of his car at night before becoming what Nike is today.

He also says many originals had parents that nurtured their originality. What he explains is that rules should be replaced with values, allowing more room for originality. He uses the example of staying at the diner table until everyone is done eating. We could tell our kids that it's a rule and that's it. Or we could tell them they value respect and it's not respectful to leave the table before everyone is done eating.

He also explains how they are not different about fear and doubts and that originals hate taking risks. They keep questioning themselves. Nike didn't go on with his idea for very long. He had a lot of time to ensure it made sens, but he might also have been afraid to try an fail. However, Adam Grant says that many originals eventually have their fear of failure eventually overtaken by the fear of failing to try.

He also cites many other qualities of originals, such as the fact that they produce a lot more ideas, they have a lot of bad ones, and some great ones. They also usually have a broad experience rather than a deep one, which might be something that helps create connections between seemingly unrelated things. In the case of Warby Parker, one of the co-founder had been working on glasses in poor countries and knew first hand how they could do cheaper glasses to help everyone see. They also tend to question the status quo, which is really important to be able to have an impact in an otherwise stall market. Warby Parker ended up wondering why do glasses cost so much while also being an 800 years of technology? Everyone else would have simply shrugged an said because that's what it cost, but they instead disrupted that idea.

Often though, they are hesitant about taking the leap. Since they are hesitant, they don't put their liveliness into that project, so they don't feel pressure to push to market as quickly as possible. Once they push to market, it's because they are ready and made the best thing they could have done.

Finally, he also says that originals are flexible. They can admit bad ideas and change their mind about things, which seems very important to avoid being blinded by a wrong idea and heading against a wall without noticing.