+++
date = "2018-03-09T20:37:38+00:00"
title = "Ten Steps to Develop the Financial Genius"

+++
... read the ten steps to develop the financial genius as explained by Robert T. Koyisaki in his [Rich Dad Poor Dad](https://www.amazon.com/Rich-Dad-Poor-Teach-Middle/dp/1612680003/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=ab72ed8229dbb0b9183b7c8af3a738c8&creativeASIN=1612680003) book. This is my understanding of those ten steps.

 1. **Need a reason greater than reality.** By that, he means that we need something greater than the simple end result to go through. He takes the example of a woman that wanted to be part of the Olympic swimming team. Her motivation to get up in the morning to swim for three hours did not come for the goal itself. It came for her and for the people that she love. This love was allowing her to wake up a 4 AM and keep working on this goal. The same concept applies to what we want. Wanting money for money is probably not a strong enough motivator. Wanting money to travel, to be free from working, to not feel the fears, to be able to live life fully, that might be a stronger motivator.
 2. **Choose daily.** This simple rule comes down to constantly making the hard choices that will bring you toward your goal. It's the daily choices that make the difference in the long run. He moves that subject to what he chooses daily, which is to learn. He says that after all, our best asset is our mind, and investing in our knowledge every day is the best way to progress toward our goals.
 3. **Choose friends carefully.** That one correlates with his view of learning every day. He chooses his friends not on how much they have but instead of how much he can learn from them. It does not mean only have friends of a single point of view, but to learn from many distinct views. He however warns against following all of what friends say, as their view might diverge and their lessons might not be on what you think it is.
 4. **Master a formula and then learn a new one.** That basically comes down to constantly learning new things and never sticking to a formula. The world changes and what works today might not work tomorrow. Also, whenever you learn a formula, maybe it is already widely used with so much competition that it is hard to apply it. Sometimes it is a really fresh formula that not many have figured out yet and competition is sparse. Learning constantly opens up new perspective on how things can be achieved.
 5. **Pay yourself first.** This one is literal as in put money in your assets before paying your bills and liabilities. By always paying yourself first, you build a habit of investing, you never defer it. It also makes it faster to pile up the investments and eventually leads to greater returns, while paying everyone else first puts you in a weaker position for the future. Think about it, who's the most important person in your life? You are and you should take care of your future before everyone else's future.
 6. **Pay your brokers well.** That also has a bit to do with learning, but more so on changing the point of view on what we pay for. First, you want a broker that teaches you, not only does thing for you. So you want to pay for someone that can give you knowledge as well. Second, the higher the broker is paid, the more money he generates. He says it this way : "I love it when my real estate broker or stockbroker makes a lot of money. Because it usually means I made a lot of money." He also compares it to waiters in restaurant, who we usually tip 15 to 20 percent, but we complain paying 3 to 7 percent for a broker. We complain paying someone to help build the assets but not paying someone increasing the expenses. That's kind of dumb when looked at this way.
 7. **Be an "Indian giver".** The interesting concept he talks about here is for instance to put money on a stock that will increase a lot, and once you made a lot with the stock, sell out your original investment. There, you have whatever it generated in stock for free now, whether it succeeds or not. Your original investment is safe out. Seeing it this way, it does indeed feel like the generated part is obtained for free.
 8. **Assets buy luxuries.** What else is there to say about that one? The whole book has been talking about building the assets columns and getting rid of liabilities and expenses. The point of paying yourself first is to increase the assets. The point of paying your broker well is to increase the assets. The point of learning is to increase that mental asset. He also told a good story in this part. A friend of his had his son spending all his money. He wanted his dad to buy him a car but Robert's friend didn't want to buy him that, and his son ended up thinking about taking out all his savings for a down payment. The dad instead decided to give him 3000$ with the condition that he had to raise it by 6000$ through investment, and then he could use that 6000$ to buy a car. He gave him all the resources he needed to learn to invest and taught him a strong and useful lesson for only 3000$.
 9. **The need for heroes.** This one is about he inner child in us, that should be brought back a bit. When kids, when often ended up thinking about some heroes and wanted to be like them, behaving like them. Robert cites good baseball players for instance. When doing what these heroes do, when end up not being ourselves but our heroes. So, learn from financial heroes and think of what they would be doing in your situations.
10. **Teach and you shall receive.** This one is a derivative of give and you shall receive, but focused on giving knowledge. He says that he teaches a lot to many people and he learns just as much if not more from them in return. He constantly learns from all the knowledge he spreads.