+++
date = "2018-03-10T18:02:22+00:00"
title = "Personalities"

+++
... listened to [The Sorting Hat](https://www.npr.org/2017/12/04/568365431/what-can-a-personality-test-tell-us-about-who-we-are) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, they talk about personality tests, their accuracy, usefulness, impacts, etc.

The episode starts off with the iconic scene of the very first Harry Potter movie where the Sorting Hat figures out the personality of each new student and places them in the most fitting house. The hat is the test and the house is the result, the personality. Fans of the series ended up learning which house has which traits and in which they fit. They can tell you their friends would be in which house in that universe.

They then go on with the Myers-Briggs test. They tell stories of people who found love from it, who understood better who they are and why they behave the way they do. But they also told stories of people who lost their job because of the result they obtained, of people who lost confidence in themselves because of what the test told them. Someone explained that the second time he took the test, he expected to have the same results, considering he's the same person, but did the opposite on every front. How could that be? He questioned the reliability of the test, and used an alternative instead, the big five personality test.

Eventually, they present someone that made the mix between the Myers-Briggs 16 personalities and the 4 houses in Harry Potter. Turns out, when people who did the Myers-Briggs test were told what they corresponding house were, it matched. So, is the Myers-Briggs scientific and robust enough if its results can be replicated with the houses of a fictional story?

They eventually move on to an entirely different personality concept, the Chinese zodiac. In China, it is believed that the children of the dragon will be doing a lot of great things. They will be better than their parents, will go further in school. So, every year of the dragon, the birthrate increases because the parents want a successful child. Throughout their lives, these children are pushed to greatness by their parents, expecting a lot from them. A study was performed regarding the academic performances of children of the dragon. The expectation was that because of the increased birthrate, classes would be more packed, course material less available, teachers more busy, and grades worse. They realized that it was the opposite. Children of the dragon were really scoring better than others in school. They though maybe the teachers were superstitious and gave better grade to these kids, but the results were the same for exams graded by a software.

So how could the children of the dragon be performing better? It comes from the parents. From their expectation, they change their behavior with their kids and create an environment in which they learn more. One of the person that did the study is actually a children of the dragon and he recalls his parents telling him to focus on studying, that he didn't have to do any chores in the house. He also tells about his father that brought him master's degree English books while he was only 13 years old.

So, we can see that by believing children of the dragon are better, the behavior of the parents created an environment to help make them better. If we come back to the personalities, does that mean getting a result tells us who we really are, or do we become the result we obtained from believing it's who we are? I'll end with a quote from Robert T. Koyisaki about choosing what to study (emphasis mine).

> Most of us have heard the saying "You are what you eat." I have a different slant on the same saying.  I  say,  "You  become  what  you  study."  In  other  words,  be  careful  what  you  study  and learn,  because  **your  mind  is  so  powerful  that  you  become  what  you  put  in  your  head**.  For example, if you study cooking, you then tend to cook. You become a cook. If you don't want to be a cook anymore, then you need to study something else. Let's say, a schoolteacher. After studying teaching, you often become a teacher. And so on. Choose what you study carefully.