+++
date = "2018-03-23T21:31:47+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Music"

+++
... spent a lot of time thinking about music and listening to some. I spend a good deal of time doing that every day, because I love music. I used to play guitar, but it destroyed my vision of music, I analyzed everything, I stopped enjoying it for what it was but rather for how it was played. After I stopped, I was able to enjoy it again, and now my range of music types is wider than ever before.

The ultimate goal for this year of writing is to buy myself a keyboard and try to get into music again, but with a true formation to learn to play the right way, until it can be a fun way to experiment and create, just like programming is a way to create and doesn't involve copying what others did in the past. I'm hoping to do it in a way and with a medium that won't negatively affect the way I listen to music.

On thing that really seem interesting regarding music, and I spent a good deal of time watching videos about that tonight, is modular music. You assemble different modules in a board, you link them with cables, and you get music. The whole concept is getting a basic wave form and modifying it and using it in all sorts of way to create something unique and beautiful. There are three things that attract me to this kind of music. Unlike any other instruments, these are always entirely unique. Keyboards and guitars will be producing the same kind of sound, will have the same way to interact with them. Modular music is unique in the fact that each player builds his own instrument and chooses what to put in it. Secondly, similar to the instrument, the performance is unique as well. There are so many variables, remembering a patch is impossible. Even more, remembering the variations you made while the patch evolved is even more impossible. That makes each and every piece of sound produced unique. You get to live the sounds you produced, and unless you record it, it's gone for ever after that. Lastly, because of how unique everything is, you don't play that instrument to enjoy playing your favorite songs. You just do what you do.

The downside of modular music is the cost. Each module can cost nearly 500$ and you need many to start producing decent sounds. That makes them hardly approachable for neophyte. That's why something in between could be a very interesting bet. Another thing I've been wanting to try is piano. I really enjoy music from Philip Glass and Nils Frahm, both playing soft and emotional songs on a piano. Unlike what I enjoy from guitar, what I enjoy from piano is usually slow and soft, meaning I could learn to play those songs without having to become a super genius. The mix in between for piano and modular is a keyboard with a lot of controls and semi-weighted keys. Something such as the Komplete Kontrol would do. There's nothing module in there, I agree, but some of the basics of digital music can still be learned from such device I believe. Furthermore, couldn't it be used to input additional sounds or triggers to modular boards? In any case, that's what I'd like to get if I each that 365 days in a row. It would be something that I could expand my knowledge on, a new skill I could work on.