+++
date = "2018-04-03T18:37:06+00:00"
title = "Light Show"

+++
... haven't done much in the learning area. One thing I did is I went to watch some more videos of a band I really like, Meshuggah. Their music is always very powerful, the rhythms aren't always easy to follow, and they play beats difficult to replicate, that require a lot of stamina. The drummer for instance is considered by Meshuggah fans to be one of the best drummer there is. Truth be told, he is really impressive. The drum kick beats he does on songs such as Bleed is even too quick and complicate for my fingers, but he can replicate it because of many months of hard work. Even while doing those very intense complicated beats, he has the time to do subtle hits with his hands.

The thing that impressed me in the videos today is how they play on live. They are actually spot on not just musically, but with the light show as well. That means those very complicated beats and what not are replicated in the lights on stage as they play. How can they pull it off so nicely? The fact is, the light show is not recorded and they just try to match it. The light show is actually performed as well.

I found a video demonstrating what the light show guy was doing. Basically, he seems to have pre-recorded sequences of moves or flashes the light do, with buttons to trigger those pre-recorded sequence. He also has ways to dim or change the color of the light so he plays with that live. Then, once the song starts playing, he triggers the right lights at the right time by playing the song alongside the band. [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MiSr8iNwWsw) is an example of how he plays while the band plays live, which is the secret to the light being so perfectly timed.

In order for that to work "so easily" live, he has to program everything beforehand, which requires a lot of time. Luckily, the light operator, Advard Hansson, showed some of his programming work [on video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hFx0ZhANnKY). Unluckily, the video goes by so fast, we can't really understand what's going on with that programming. But, from what I get, he can replicate the presses he would do live to trigger the lights, create a fake stage, and see how that programming would look like live.