+++
date = "2018-03-15T18:43:17+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Investors and Speculators"

+++
... read the first chapter of [The Intelligent Investor](https://www.amazon.com/Intelligent-Investor-Definitive-Investing-Essentials/dp/0060555661/ref=as_sl_pc_qf_sp_asin_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=1e3e2c9c4983efac6efede93555eb72d&creativeASIN=0060555661) by Benjamin Graham. In this chapter, he insists on the distinction between investors and speculators. Most of the chapter consists of examples of what happened in the past, strategies employed by investors and speculators, etc. He also explains how investment and speculation were distinct terms in the early 1900s but slowly became mixed and eventually the distinction disappeared from Wall Street.

To Graham, an investment is an operation that "upon thorough analysis, promises safety of principals and an adequate return." To him, it comes down to three elements to follow :

* you must thoroughly analyze a company, and the soundness of its underlying businesses, before you buy its stock;
* you must deliberately protect yourself against serious losses;
* you must aspire to “adequate,” not extraordinary, performance.

Anything not including all three is therefore a speculation. All the day trading and technical analysis of stocks you know nothing about isn't investing but speculation. He clearly warns that speculation is not a stable and consistent way to produce wealth as opposed to investment.

There is a lot of irony in the market as it's exposed throughout the chapter. Once a good method is noticed by someone, others start to use it, and then it's no longer a good method. It's like when I find a trade in EVE Online where the gap between the buy and sell is very large and the volume still good. Usually, the first week it's fine, but slowly more and more people find about this item and the sell offer and buy offer pile up, slowly moving the price to its true value. It's good for the market, but not for the "speculator". It's ironic because once it works, it no longer works. As soon as the good deal is understood by others, it stops being good.

What that tells me is speculating isn't about finding a good recipe and sticking to it but it's about constantly changing your method and figuring out what could be good right now. I can see how it is not likely to generate a constant stream of revenue. On the other hand, Graham insists that long term investments are always working in the end with the right strategies, but people hardly hold to their stocks nowadays. I don't know what I'll make of it. Swing Trading seems fun, but I totally understand how it could be more profitable to just stick to a stock for a long time rather than always changing. Maybe a bit of both from different account could be a good way to enjoy and learn the market.