+++
date = "2018-02-26T19:16:04+00:00"
draft = true
title = "The Plan 1.4"

+++
... reflected on The Plan once more. It is much sooner than usual, but it has nothing to do with how things go with it (although I'm getting an increasingly high number of fail recently...) It has to do with the finance. As I said in previous posts, I decided to focus on the finances and to start to have fun with it so I can better enjoy handling money and get better at it rather than run away from it.

The first phase is to better understand our spending habits. In order to do that, I must keep track of all the transactions happening. I could already decide on a budget, but I do not even know how I spend so the numbers would be arbitrary and not fun to handle. Instead, I'll simply keep track of transactions happening and split all the expenses in different categories. Which means, starting now, I'll manually add every transactions every day. It will mean I'll also have to make sure to balance everything out.

I finished setting up GnuCash for that and everything is ready to begin. I opted for GnuCash because I had a much easier time following the transactions and seeing all the numbers what how they behave than in HomeBank. Maybe it's just because of how I prefer strict and explicit over flexible and implicit. Nevertheless, it's all ready, with some transaction reminders, a system to keep track of the bills I receive that I haven't paid yet, the amounts I did pay, etc. I get a nice Net Assets at the bottom. The goal will be to see it rise.

Instead of doing a lot of figuring out what I did on the week ends or at the end of the month, I will be filling GnuCash every night once I get home. It's easy to note that you spent 10$ of a lunch one day, it's another thing when you get 20 lunches, plus the gym, clothes, and that stop a the drug store. It would probably still work if I keep all my bills, but still, doing it daily will greatly simplify the process. It will also force me to keep an eye on the progression.

Also, not related to finances, I am almost done with another book, and I am not sure what to read next. Once I'll be done with the current one, I'll try to find a new one and if not, I'll simply take it out until I find a book. I'd rather spend time focusing on my money than reading. Maybe reading about my spending habits and what not, but I'd have to find interesting books for that and as I am new to the subject, I do not know where to start.