+++
date = "2018-01-25T20:02:50+00:00"
title = "Rust Websockets"

+++
... spent some time checking how to use websockets in Rust for a proof of concept.

As I am not a Rust programmer, I do not know much about the language, but I want to slowly rebuild the latest proof of concept I have originally done in NodeJS in Rust, to see the differences between the languages and learn Rust in a close to real situation. It would involve communicating with a frontend, writing to a store of data, transforming data from one type to another, etc. I would also do that in Go, and eventually figure out which language would be best suited for such project.

I first started by checking what libraries existed to this day on [crates.io](https://crates.io/). Turns out there are two libraries that stand out, [websocket ](https://crates.io/crates/websocket)and [ws](https://crates.io/crates/ws). I decided to first try out ws. The library seems well documented and has slightly more downloads. It has also been update more recently.

In the proof of concept I did, there was a frontend with a fake backend that was doing a proxy to the true backend with an http proxy middleware. First thing I noticed, the library wasn't liking it at all, because the proxy was trying to establish the websocket connection through the http protocol and then update it to the ws protocol. Instead, I tried to bypass the http proxy I had been using, and tell the [socket.io](https://socket.io/) client to call straight on the ws protocol. It still failed because socket.io always uses the http transport first. But as it turns out you can force socket.io to only use the websocket transport but it is not the safe and right way to do things. In the context of a proof of concept, it doesn't really matter.

Once that worked, I was trying to get messages displayed on the Rust backend to see how socket.io was behaving. Unlike a basic websocket, socket.io uses a concept of events emitted and event listeners. The socket is the equivalent of NodeJS event emitter between the frontend and the backend. That concept was useful to work with and I wanted to reproduce it. However, no messages were getting to the server from the socket.io connection. I was however able to successfully send message from the native WebSocket object, so I know the Rust backend was receiving things correctly.

The next step will be to instead display the raw data from socket.io from a NodeJS middleware, and then see how it does it's emitting to simulate that behavior using native websockets. Then I'll be able to receive the same calls and mock the data from the Rust backend to keep working on the proof of concept one step at a time.