+++
date = "2018-02-20T18:47:36+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Big Data Truths"

+++
... listened to the [Who We Are At 2 A.M.](https://www.npr.org/2017/05/01/526399881/what-our-google-searches-reveal-about-who-we-really-are) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, Seth Stephens-Davidowitz, a former data scientist at Google, talks about how big data reveals truths about ourselves that we don't dare to speak of. The fact is, we feel more confident in querying Google with things we would never tell any one. We don't feel judged when searching things through a text box. Yet, the query we do can reveal pretty interesting information.

Seth uses some examples of how they can see that many lie about themselves (we can't tell who lies, only that people lie). For instance, he talks about surveys that are sometimes done to know the population. Are you a homosexual. Depending on the state, the proportion of people answering yes to that question varies a lot. When trying to correlate the survey results with search queries relating to the subject, turns are there isn't a big difference between states. Does that mean people are feeling unable to tell the truth in some states?

He also talks about sex, because many things people never want to talk about openly and admit to others is their sexual fetishes, whether they go on pornhub, etc. With big data, we can actually have data showing what portion of the population is really into. There is no denying it. Actually, Pornhub itself reveals a lot of data about its users through very interesting charts and blog posts.

Some other thing they talked about is racism. No one admits to be racist, yet, when it comes to searches, they are less worried about writing what they are looking for. They are able to see where there is more racism through those statistics. One correlation they found from that is the correlation between racism and where Trump won votes. They actually said racism was the most strongly correlated data they found. They also were able to see that many people were against Obama because of racism, thing we would have a much harder time to see in other contexts.

Not only are big data able to show things about ourselves, they are also valuable to companies. We all know they have a lot of information and use that to target us with ads and what not. Facebook also has a lot of information about the state of mind of people, whether they are happy or unhappy. They even decided to do a study which brought them many problems due to how it was performed. Without telling its users, it would change the feed to have more or less negative comments and see whether the person would slowly become more or less negative by being surrounded by these types of comments. It is unethical because the users weren't aware of that and their behavior was worked through how Facebook would present the information, but the fact remain that they really had a change of mood because of how the information was presented. It is very impressive how big data can reveal information we wouldn't be able to figure otherwise.

One last thing they talked about was how Microsoft tried to figure whether they could tell if a user has pancreatic cancer. To do that, they used data from search results of people searching how to handle a pancreatic cancer. They looked at their search history from before they were diagnosed and tried to find common searches that would mean pancreatic cancer. Turns out they were able to with a very low rate of false positive (1 in 100,000).