+++
date = "2018-02-01T19:31:49+00:00"
draft = true
title = "TBD"

+++
... listened to the [Google at Work](https://www.npr.org/2016/06/07/480976042/how-googles-laszlo-bock-is-making-work-better) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, they talk about how Google handles the people within the organization. Laszlo Bock, author of [Work Rules!](https://www.amazon.com/Work-Rules-Insights-Inside-Transform-ebook/dp/B00MEMMVB8/ref=tmm_kin_swatch_0?_encoding=UTF8&sr=8-1&qid=1423767873), is trying to explain how to take people and make them exceptional.

He starts off by talking about how Bell Labs built their new buildings in the 40s or 50s with very long corridors with offices along. Whenever someone would stumble out of their office, they would bump on other employees and new conversations and topic would emerge. Similarly, Google has long tables and large round tables so when people go eat, they often sit next to someone they don't know and conversation can emerge from that.

He then explains that most of what they do start with the assumption that people are fundamentally good. They believe good people do way better and are more careful when they feel like they work on something they own. That's why they still give parts of the company to every employee. They also believe that with it comes the responsibility of being transparent about what's going on. If it's yours, you should know what's going on with it. They do all-hands every week and any one can bring any topic to discuss at those times.

They also encourage employees to contact anyone within the company when they need to. They make it feel less hierarchical and encourage people to reach out for even CEO or founders. Because people at the front line see things differently than those higher ups, they know what's going on directly, it is important they have a voice and a direct way to communicate what they see to higher ups.

Laszlo Bock then says that employees just wanna get their job done alone, at the right time, assuming people are fundamentally good. However, managers' success depends on the employees' successes, so they naturally want to make sure it's good and start to micro-manage. Since managers are employees too, they want to control below and be freedom up. Instead, at Google, managers are there to make teams effective, just coach them, counsel them. To do so, they remove some power from managers; they are not the ones deciding the team composition, the promotions, the salaries, the new hires, etc. The only thing left for them is asking "How can I help?" And they don't control and instead they guide and counsel.

He also that he believes wide variation in pay is a good thing, because of the power law distribution. He says we usually assume that human performance is normally distributed. It is usually understood that 80% of the workforce produces 20% of the value. He explains that however, it can be even more steep then that, that the top people can produce way more than the average, often producing above 90% or even 95% of the value. If you pay people equally, the good ones will quit. Instead, they pay aggressively for high performer, but Laszla Bock says you need a system that is just and fair so you can honestly stand and say that's why they got that much.

Finally, they talk about finding talents. We probably heard stories about why manhole covers are round and that sort of interview questions are asked. He explains that thing happened when they had to grow very rapidly. They tried the brute force method force, hiring more recruiters, screening the best schools, checking the best grades. It produced that awful process that was too complex and painful.

Since then, they took a step back. They checked how many interviews were really required to to tell whether to hire someone. They used to do 15 to 20 interviews before figuring out whether to hire, but found out that after 4 they actually already knew. They checked how test scores and where you studied influenced your job performance and found out it doesn't really matter. Actually, none of that stuff matters, you can find great people anywhere.

Now instead, Google looks for four attributes based on people who have been successful at Google. The first one is general cognitive ability. It's how smart you are, how good are you at learning, and your general problem solving skills among other things. They also check for emergent leadership, which is when you see a problem and step in. It is also how you can relinquish power when needed. Third, they check for what they call Googliness, which he resumes to be conscientiousness. Finally, they check for intellectual humility, which he defines as the ability to revise your opinions when given new facts.