+++
date = "2018-05-02T20:48:35-04:00"
title = "Bad Assumptions"

+++
... thought a bit about assumptions we have in our modern society. Actually, I say modern society, but I do not know of those assumptions were already existing before. The Teal way says assumes that all people are good by default. That's what we'd expect to always be assumed. Even more so, isn't it assumed that people are innocent until proven guilty? That's the same kind of assumption, that people are good by default.

When we look at how we do things and how we behave, we can see that we assume people are bad. When you call for technical service, the first questions they ask is to see whether you're stupid or not. When we design programs, we always design them thinking how people could misuse them, how they could exploit it, how they could screw everything. Most of the code we do is to prevent people from doing bad stuff. Whenever we see someone trying to sell us something, don't we assume he's trying to screw us somehow? Aren't we always assuming that companies are overcharging us for the services they provide? Why do we need a net neutrality law?

I believe that constantly expecting bad from people makes us behave more badly. I have no proof of that but it's the concept of monkey see monkey do, or even just the same as broken window. We see that others are doing it and getting rewards from it, we might as well. After all, they are doing bad thing to us so it's just the return of the balance. What if we were expecting people to be good by default, would people be more good in general because of that?

One of the things I thought about is also regarding technologies. Why do we have 2FA? Because only passwords aren't safe enough. And password recovery are weak against assholes trying to constantly steal people identities rather than making an honest job. So we work like crazy building complex systems to protect against assholes. We even have industries built on expecting bad from people, such as damage insurance. They make it very difficult to claim insurance money because some people could abuse the system. But on the other hand, people feel abused by this very same system because of how much they try not to pay.

I just wish people could trust each others, or at least be able to assume people are good by default and not design systems, laws, industries, protocols, only to make it impossible for ill intentionned people to exploit. 