+++
date = "2018-02-07T20:00:41+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Politics and Parenting"

+++
... listened to the [Our Politics, Our Parenting](https://www.npr.org/2016/09/13/493615864/when-it-comes-to-our-politics-family-matters) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, they talk about the relation between politics and families. More specifically, how our view of the family impacts our political views.

They describe two basic models of parenting, the "strict father" and the "nurturing parent". George Lakoff describes the "strict father" as :

> The father knows best, the father knows right from wrong, and the job  of the father is not just to support and protect the family but also,  with respect to children, to teach them right from wrong so they have  the right moral views.

In contrast, they define the "nurturing parent" as :

> Nurturant parents feel their job is to empathize with  their child, to know what their child needs, and to have open two-way  discussions with their child.  

What does it have to do with politics? They believe our political preferences are driven by hidden frameworks we aren't even aware of. The country has many analogies with the family, the country is a big family, our founding fathers, the country sends of its sons and daughters to wars, it does not want missiles in its backyards. All those analogies are referencing the family.

The analogy refers to the same concept but very different beliefs in people. The "strict father" wants tough love, a country that keeps its budget strict, that prepares people for a tough world. The "nurturing parent" wants to help the country grow in empathy and compassion, helping the weaker, nurturing great things in them.

The found out that many of the way the different political parties try to reach the people is through those to archetype of parenting. They even went into TV commercials during election from to 1980s up to today to see whether they would find analogies around the family, with emphasis on either the "strict father" or the "nurturing parent", and it has been there for a long time.

Considering that the family is the first social structure we see, it is understandable that it is so easy to derive what we want from a family into what we want from a country.