+++
date = "2018-01-26T17:40:46+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Grit"

+++
... listened to the [Grit](https://www.npr.org/2016/04/04/472162167/the-power-and-problem-of-grit) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, Angela Duckworth talks about the concept of [grit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grit_(personality_trait)), which is defined as "perseverance and passion for long term goals."

She explains how when she was teaching kids, she often had a few students who were very quick to understand what she explained, and some other that had a lot of difficulties to grasp what they were taught. One would assume the first ones would eventually score much better at the end of the year, but she was actually surprised to see that it wasn't the case. She clarifies that by saying that she knew effort matters, but not how much it matters.

From that revelation, she went back to school to study this personality trait. She studied many people in many discipline, from spelling bee contestant to sales representatives. She noticed that the ones who made it through and did the best were not always the smartest but quite often the grittiest. She believes grit is made of up four key psychological assets: interest, practice, purpose and hope.

Then eventually compare the concept of grit with the concept of [10,000 hours](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Outliers_(book)), where the grit makes those hours more worthy. One key point of grit, and the 10,000 hours is that the time spent is what is qualified as [deliberate practice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Practice_(learning_method)#Deliberate_practice), a practice that's highly focused on getting better and learning through difficult tasks.

Eventually, the podcast talks about the downside of grit, how it can cause a tunnel vision of some kind, where the person doesn't stop to reflect and whether what he's doing is worth doing or is the right thing to do, and instead just keep doing it. Grittiness can then be qualified almost as stubbornness, which isn't a good thing in itself. They try to figure out where grittiness becomes stubbornness, but only conclude that it's only retroactively that we can figure out whether it was one or another.

Finally, upon reading on the subject, it appears that grit is a debated personality trait and more recent studies seem to disprove it. Although anecdotal, my own experience points toward it not really being that much of a thing, or not being that impactful. I never really studied, I couldn't care for it, yet I always achieve good grades, if not great grades.

Once in College, I would binge watch the remote course videos once a month and do the assignments over a few days and still scored A+ all the time. I also never engaged in deliberate practice to try and learn something, I instead simply exposed myself to what I had to learn without trying to understand what I couldn't. I knew eventually I would understand it, maybe after a week or two, without efforts, only by exposing myself to it.

I believe grit can only be useful to practice as opposed to staying on the couch, but as a way to learn faster, I doubt it.