+++
date = "2018-01-13T15:50:35+00:00"
title = "Internet Sabbath"

+++
... read the Rule #2: Embrace Boredom chapter of the [Deep Work](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1455586692/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1455586692&linkCode=as2&tag=grochat-20&linkId=656f46ccb19aebc7272ca0e4e2c18441) book by Cal Newport. In this chapter, Cal Newport talks about the concept of Internet Sabbath, which is basically taking a day of off internet; no email, no browsing, no nothing. The goal is to get used to not be distracted by those things. However, Cal Newport believes this isn't the right step. He compares it to eating healthy one day a week and expecting to lose weight.

He instead proposes the opposite act: rather than saying when not to go on internet, say when to go on internet. He proposes something flexible but there to train the brain to fight temptation. So, for someone that needs to connect constantly in his work, he proposes being allowed to go on internet only once every 15 minutes for blocks of no more than 5 minutes at a time. For someone who does not need internet as much, those blocks could be spaced a lot more. The reason behind this is when we feel the need to go browse something, but we aren't allowed yet, we train our brain to not give in to those cravings.

He explains some rules to follow for it to work:

1. This can work regardless of the type of job you have, you just need to schedule accordingly.
2. You must never cheat even if it's for an emergency. It tells the brain that the rule is loose and you'll end up cheating and cheating more and more. Instead, re-schedule things sooner, say in 5 minutes from now.
3. Extend the practice to home. You can schedule much longer blocks of internet usage once at home as it might be for entertainment, but still limit yourself to these blocks and fight the urge to go there between blocks.

I like the idea but I hardly see it applicable at all time for my situation, although he claims I could. The reason behind this is I'm developing web applications, so I kinda have to sometimes. But instead of saying "no internet" though, I've been saying "no distracting internet". I allow myself to search for an answer to something blocking me, but I don't let myself go on a website I usually browse for no valuable reason. Maybe it is because I noticed some patterns, such as the fact that I often end up writing "ne" or "fa" or "yo" in the address bar without noticing it just to go on Hacker News, Facebook or YouTube. It's those reflexes I'm trying to fight.

However, I still see things I do that I shouldn't. I keep the tabs I often have to go to for work pinned in my browser, and when I'm doing something, often I just click each one really quickly, sometimes back and forth, as if I were trying to find something without knowing what it was. The only reason the tabs are pinned are so that I don't have to open them each time, to save maybe five seconds. Instead, I'll close them at all time, and open them as needed.
