+++
date = "2018-04-26T20:02:36-04:00"
title = "Burning Rage"

+++
... need to write about an emotion I have been having a lot more recently. Maybe by writing about it, I will figure out ways to handle it better, or why it seems to be more present right now than it was before, etc. The short version is I felt more aggressive. It seems to have slowly build up and now I'm at a point where I'm wondering how I can slow it down.

I've always been someone very patient. The only things I ever raged about were objects not working at all, anything inanimate that was just not cooperating somehow, or badly designed. I never really had any issues with people, always being patient with them. My wife even hated it when she was trying to get more worked up and it wasn't working, I was staying calm and listening to her while she was mad at something.

However, over the past few years maybe, I slowly lost some patience for people not getting better, producing sub par work of some kind, being lazy and not caring enough. Sometimes I'd swear while fixing stuff and what not, it's never fun to clean other's mess, but bugs used to be puzzles to solve, something I could "figure out". Recently, it's been more of an annoyance. I feel like I'm constantly cleaning others' mess, and almost every time I feel more and more rage building up. I've been picturing myself breaking stuff, punching things because of that. It's not just about bugs but it's things in general, some inaction, or slowness to understand what I'm explaining, or having to repeat myself, all these get me more frustrated than they did before.

Even over the past month, twice I felt a burning rage inside and I really just wanted to walk out and say "screw this shit", for things I had to fix that ended up being my responsibility or even my fault although I never touched anything of it before that day. Maybe it has to do with how unfocused I currently am professionally. I answer questions to colleagues, support, etc., do some R&D projects and then have to explain it to X and Y, help with interviews, while also having to do fixes on 12 other projects that all have daily updates and bugs that must be quickly fixed because customers are waiting, and developing new stuff for new opportunities with new clients. I feel like I'm alone to fix these, they are assigned to me because they know I can figure out and fix anything, and it just piles up. I can start a week with one simple goal on my list and by the end of the week, I have 10 times more things to do although I never stopped fixing all sorts of things. I also end up designing a lot of stuff because what I build usually works and very rarely has unexpected issues (there are always the places you expect things to break such as the communication layer between APIs).

I don't know whether it's my current role in the company, that I became responsible for too many projects, that I ended up being a very central source of knowledge for many, but sometimes I just wish I could have my single small thing to work on and ditch all that stuff I'm ending up being responsible of although it wasn't my doing. Could that be a sign that I'm heading to a burn out if I don't stop or change something radically? Maybe I'm not that important in the company and it's just an impression I have, and I'm just getting a big head, and my situation is no different than anybody else. It's always difficult to understand where you are situated in all this...