+++
date = "2018-01-12T20:01:07+00:00"
title = "Event Sourcing Rules"

+++
... came to the conclusion that there are some rules to follow to build a minimal Event Sourcing system. By summarizing those rules, it makes it easier to reason about what must be done as opposed to what could be done.

1. **Event Sourcing implies CQRS** (however CQRS does not imply Event Sourcing). CQRS is basically handling the reads and the writes differently. You will not be handling the reads with Events as with the writes, so you will be in a form of CQRS.
2. **Event Sourcing means you must be able to rebuild the data state from the events only**. That means if you have Event Sourcing, I should be able to do an _rm -rf_ of your data and you'd be able to get back exactly where you were. It also means that all the changes to the data must go through the events, it becomes the single source of truth of the data.
3. **Event Sourcing must differentiate between Commands and Events**. Commands are imperative, ADD SOMETHING. Events are past tense, SOMETHING ADDED. The distinction is important, because the command is what enters the system. It might start at the service the API is calling. The event is what results from that command. In between the two, there is the business logic.
4. **Event Sourcing must be append only**. Since the events must be the single source of truth, we must be able to trust them, and we can only trust them if they cannot be tampered with. They must not be editable or deletable. They are append only. The only case where it is correct to delete them is when they have been snapshoted and you want to free disk space. Even then, keep a full backup somewhere.
5. **Event Sourcing requires Event Versioning**. Since we cannot alter events, if they ever need to be changed to something else, a migration of the stored events is not an option. Instead, go for a transform at runtime when you need to replay it.

I would not build an Event Sourcing system without at least there 5 rules applied. There might still be more things that must be done for such system to really be robust, but I have not found them yet in my Proof of Concept.