+++
date = "2018-01-02T11:45:31+00:00"
title = "Implicit Egotism and IKEA Effect"

+++
... listened to [Me, Myself and IKEA on the Hidden Brain](https://www.npr.org/2017/05/22/529128529/me-myself-and-ikea-what-our-love-for-swedish-furniture-says-about-narcissism) podcast. In this episode, they talk about [Implicit Egotism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Implicit_egotism) and then move on to the [IKEA Effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IKEA_effect).

Implicit Egotism says that humans have an implicit preference toward things they can associate themselves with. That sounds perfectly rational, you are more likely to prefer things that you can understand and get along with. But it not about any rational decision. It can relate to name or birthdays; two people with the same name are more likely to be together, two people with the same birthday are more likely to be together. It even goes with state names where women named Georgia are more likely to gravitate toward the state of Georgia. And people with the name of a profession as their surname are more likely to do that profession later on. This unconscious power is what Implicit Egotism is.

The IKEA Effect is the fact that people put a lot more value on things they build for themselves, to the point of even paying more money for something they would build then something already assembled. One of the experimentation was with LEGO, where participants were either given an assembled LEGO car or a LEGO car in pieces they would have to assemble themselves. They were then asked how much they would pay to keep the LEGO car, and the ones that assembled theirs were willing to put twice as much on it.

Both concepts are about some unconscious power or bias that we apply. I do not know what to make of the Implicit Egotism. I know I do that already, but I am not sure whether it's beneficial or detrimental. All I know is I do it. As for the IKEA Effect, knowing how that affects how we value things, I could use that to be more careful of the things around me, by having things I built myself. The more home made my possessions would be, the more value I would associate to them, the more careful I would be with them, maybe?