+++
date = "2018-04-01T19:26:06+00:00"
title = "Experts and Memory"

+++
... read the third chapter of [Moonwalking With Einstein](https://www.amazon.com/Moonwalking-Einstein-Science-Remembering-Everything/dp/0143120530/ref=as_sl_pc_qf_sp_asin_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=ed04a2458b6b056f6788ee21e5ceb646&creativeASIN=0143120530) by Joshua Foer. This chapter focused on the concept of experts and the relation between expertise and memory.

The chapter starts with the chick sexer. This profession is built entirely on building an expertise in a very strange field. The issue with the gender of chick is that it takes about 4 to 6 weeks before the gender specific characteristics start to appear on the animal. The female are worth a lot, the male, nothing at all. Feeding the males for 4 to 6 weeks costs a lot. Someone noticed one key detail at some point. At the bottom of the animal, there is a small thing no bigger than a pin head that can be used to determine the gender very early. The chick sexer are experts at that detail, knowing how to make the difference between males and females from that small detail. The thing is, they can't explain what they're doing, they just see it and know whether it's a male or female. That comes from the fact that they spent years watching pictures of both males and females until the brain was able to do the pattern matching without actually having to think.

That concept is the basic of the chapter about experts, regardless of the field. They spend so much time doing what they do that it becomes second nature. It's like they develop an instinct, and they don't need to think, their brain knows what's going on. They made studies about experts, a lot of studies. They put experts in a situation and noted their behavior and reaction. They put novices in the same situation and noted their behavior as well. One example was with policeman noticing someone carrying a bomb, but novices not noticing anything.

They explain that upon studying experts, what they learned is how their brain simply registered things in context, which makes them able to quickly go through those circuits when put in a similar context. There's always a context. If the context is removed, the experts are no better than novices. They noticed that from how chess experts behave and think. Given very specific board positions, the experts would quickly notice the right moves to do without thinking too much. It would just be obvious to them. They could remember the pieces position very easily and recall complete games. But when shown an impossibility on the board, pieces shuffled everywhere randomly, they couldn't remember where the pieces were. That's because of the context of the board, the games already played, the different alternatives, the resemblances. All these small clues are ways to reach the memory more easily. Without context, there's no path leading to the right memory.

Upon reading, I also though about Deep Work where the author explains that constantly firing the same circuits in the brain makes the myelin sheath thicker on those specific circuits, and a thicker myelin sheath means it's easier to fire those circuits. The brain of experts then has worked through many iterations on those circuits, with many different branches and paths, but all related to one another. That makes them very quick to notice patterns in what they trained. It also works with the concept of 10,000 hours to become an expert. Only once the circuits are trained enough can you achieve such levels of "instincts".

Finally, they talk about the link between experts and memory training. It's simply the context part. When training memory, the tricks are usually somewhat similar. They don't become experts in cards, but they create a context, always. The concept of mind palace, a place where you store memories, creates a context for what needs to be remembered. The expertise becomes the mind palace, the place where everything is stored, constantly reused and trained to make it easier to use and remember.