+++
date = "2018-03-08T20:26:55+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Teal Necessary Conditions"

+++
... kept reading [Reinventing Organizations](https://www.amazon.com/Reinventing-Organizations-Frederic-Laloux/dp/2960133501/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=16863a1649df82b5cc3f9efbc9aa1103&creativeASIN=2960133501) by Frederic Laloux. More specifically, I read the chapter about the necessary conditions to have an Evolutionary-Teal organization. He found about only two necessary conditions : top leadership and ownership. 

For lack of a better term, he refers to the leaders in question as CEOs, although nothing that person does is actually like a usual CEO. There is no decision to be taken, no budget to do, no system to control, no strategies to be planed. Strangely, the CEO ends up being more important in a Teal organization, but has less to do. He is more important because he has to be the Evolutionary-Teal leader. If he isn't thinking in an Evolutionary-Teal way, the organization cannot be an Evolutionary-Teal organization.

One very important thing the CEO has to do is to actually hold the space. By holding the space, the Teal CEO ensures that Amber or Orange practice don't creep back in. Every time a conflict appear or an issue happened, the natural reflexes of most people is to defend against those threats through rules and structures. Through those control forms, people feel less threatened and safer. The CEO has to make sure people don't fall into the trap and let their fear make decision and add control, which is against the very nature of an Evolutionary-Teal organization.

The CEO also has to model the three breakthrough of every Evolutionary-Teal organization, namely self-management, wholeness and listening to purpose. Through his actions, he has to communicate to the rest of the organization how to behave, what it means to do self-management (not asking the CEO to make decision but only asking for advice and making the decision for yourself), what it means to be whole (actually caring for the well being of every one, being entirely honest with yourself and each others), and what it means to listen to the purpose (thinking about the purpose of the organization and not the ego when it comes to taking actions and giving advice).

Although the CEO is a very key element to have an Evolutionary-Teal organization, another aspect is the board. Whoever owns the company can make decision to change it, which means the board can force a structure if they feel the need for it. An example given in the book is how AES actually had its board take more and more control when the energy market took a big dive in the early 2000s. The then CEO couldn't keep them on board with the Evolutionary-Teal perspective, they weren't listening, they were afraid. They were on the board for years but never actually integrated the concept and only agreed to it while it was generating profit. Once the money dropped, they raised their defenses and added control. Nothing the CEO was doing mattered and he eventually resigned.