+++
date = "2018-04-29T19:35:41-04:00"
title = "Gaming"

+++
... played a bit more of one my favorite games, Final Fantasy VII. I started it again last week because I had been listening to the sound track while working. It's one of the best sound track there is in video games. The story is also very interesting, because it somehow has 2 distinct villains, one of which has a very complex background that explains a big part of why he's behaving that way. The main character also has many psychological issues involving personality disorders, so we get to know more about him as we go along in the story.

One aspect I find interesting as well is the dept of some characters. Even secondary characters have some good side stories. Unlike more modern games where secondary character only reveal stuff that are useful for a quest, in this game there are things that are irrelevant to the main stories, just for the sake of being in the game and creating a deeper back story. At some point, I wished the exact scenes of the game would be rendered in a TV Series of some kind so I could share that story with more people.

Aside from playing this game, recently I listed all the games I have that I never finished and that I want to finish some day. Most games I play are somehow endless, either because they are starting over every time you start a game, such as MOBAs and RTS, or because they are in a never ending story (or never ending until too few players are still playing), such as MMOs. The good thing with single player games is you do not feel forced to play a definite amount of time to keep up with a group of friend, you just play when you play. It almost means when you want to forget about other things and just do that, you can just rush through without being held back by intentional blockade.

Over the week I barely have time and energy to play, but over the weekend I can do that for a long time. I always try to have at least one day free of responsibilities (Saturdays) so I can really focus on a game and not think about anything else. My best gaming experiences have been very long and focused sessions of gaming. It's something I tried to emulate over and over. The very fun part isn't actually gaming, but the fact of having something to focus on for so long. The focus could be on writing a story, a program, reading an excellent book, etc. It just happens that I enjoy gaming. I believe it is healthy to have activities we can focus on even when it's not actually bringing any benefit to our lives.