+++
date = "2018-02-15T19:27:44+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Scarcity"

+++
... listened to the [Tunnel Vision](https://www.npr.org/2017/03/20/520587241/the-scarcity-trap-why-we-keep-digging-when-were-stuck-in-a-hole) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, they talk about the concept of scarcity. They describe it as having our brain focused on something important missing in our life.

When in scarcity, people are naturally adapting their behavior to fulfill this need. The concept is pretty simple and life saving. When you are missing food, the brain focusing on that is just a big alarm telling you to get food for your own sake. Food is that all matters for survival. It probably helped when humans had to hunt to survive, they would be really focused on the hunt. It works for many things, such as food, money or time.

The issue with scarcity is that it makes us so focused on the issue at hand that we can hardly think about other things. It causes a very big tunnel vision which can have much more negative effects on the long run. Take poverty for instance. When people don't have enough money to make ends meet, they constantly focus on how to get to the next meal, how to pay for that toilet paper. But then, once the rent is due, the wasn't in their brain, they weren't planning for it, it wasn't the most pressing issue. How could they forget such a thing? Everyone knows it's coming at the end of the month.

A study had been conducted in the 40s to know how people would handle famine in Europe after the second world war. Several volunteer got to a place were they simulated famine for a year. They got so weak, they couldn't raise their arm to touch their hair. Throughout that year, they observed their behavior. Logically, we'd think that when we are hungry, thinking about something else would make it more bearable right? Turns out they couldn't fight it. All their discussions were about food. They planed to open a restaurant, they talked about meals they'd cook. Whenever they'd watch a movie, they would focus on the meals in the movie rather than the story.

Scarcity takes up so much of our brain power that we have a lower IQ in those situation. We can't think about anything else and take the step back to solve the underlying issue. Does that mean poverty causes people to be less intellectually favored? They suggest that yes, being poor makes it more difficult mentally because of all the cognitive bandwidth put on us.