+++
date = "2018-04-07T19:19:42+00:00"
title = "Remembering Poems"

+++
... read some more of [Moonwalking With Einstein](https://www.amazon.com/Moonwalking-Einstein-Science-Remembering-Everything/dp/0143120530/ref=as_sl_pc_qf_sp_asin_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=ed04a2458b6b056f6788ee21e5ceb646&creativeASIN=0143120530) by Joshua Foer. In the chapter I read, he talks about memorizing a poem and why it is considered to be the most difficult part of the World Championship by most competitors. He talks about some other topics leading to that one, but the history behind poem memorization is the most interesting aspect.

They start by explaining how things were before writing even existed. Everything was transmitted orally and remembered. Memory was the most important thing to transmit information between generations. So much that there were many jobs that were targeting that very specific roles, such as remembering all the laws that existed. Poets were also part of that oral tradition. They could think of poems but couldn't write them down. Some even had memory specialist that would remember the poems they would think.

When we look at poems, we see a lot of abstractions, words we can't imagine, which makes them every difficult to remember. It's also easy to remember an idea, but it's difficult to remember the exact precise words. To explain how they used to remember poems, they took a loot at The Iliad and The Odyssey. Many critics claim they aren't very good poems for masterpieces, with things such as always referring to a character with a quality, even when that quality is misplaced in the context, such as referring to a joyful character while that exact character is crying. Studies have however shown that those two poems are actually oral poems written down at some point. They had been remembered by several people, each potentially introducing small changes. What that did is everything that wasn't relevant to the story got stripped. Everything that made it simpler to remember stuck. Adding qualities to the characters was a method to made it more memorable, such as referring to character X as "Joyful X". What also happens is that poems were inherently formed to be easy to remember. Rhymes and rhythms are two things that make remembering a text much easier. That's why the poems were sung, it made them more lasting. Everyone could easily remember a song and thus the information was transmitted.

Once writing became a thing, the mentality quickly changed. The poems would not longer need to be memorized, they could be written in more interesting and challenging forms by the artists. So when the very first book about memorization appeared, it was already over 100 years after the invention of writing. A lot of knowledge on how to remember was already lost and couldn't be transcribed. At that point, poems memorization wasn't as important as it used to, and techniques to remember them, and how to construct them to be more memorable weren't transmitted as much.