+++
date = "2018-04-12T19:50:05+00:00"
title = "Catastrophic Scenarios"

+++
... had an interesting discussion and analysis of how sometimes our brain goes haywire into catastrophic scenarios. They seem to always be related to stress somehow, and they always snowball incredibly far, even when you rationally know they are so far off from reality.

An example of such situation would be to try to call your significant other and not getting an answer. You start to get worried, usually they always answer. Maybe they're not home yet, so you try again later, but still no answer. Something's going on, they always answer their phone and they are always home at this time of the day. Maybe they got hit by a car, or someone died, or they are held hostage. All those weird scenarios start forming and take over. But once you get home, everything is fine, and you ask them why they didn't answer the phone. They then tell you they forgot it at work, or the battery died, or any other reasonable explanation that is way more credible.

Other examples can be anything, going from doing a presentation in front of people to doing an interview. Those scenarios are very useless thoughts, they distract the brain and create a lot of worries for something that is in all likeliness our of your control. They also prevent the brain to focus on something it can actually change or have an impact on, or really anything as anything is more worthwhile than those thoughts.

The biggest issue with this in my opinion is that it can prime you to some reactions. For instance, if you are afraid of going to an interview and expect the worst from it, it might prime your brain to do the wrong thing, to say the stuff you shouldn't say, because you thought about those "things I shouldn't say" rather than about those "things I should say". The fear took over and forced the attention on all the wrong details and information. Another example would be having to negotiate something, for instance with your ex and her lawyer, and expecting the worst confrontation that could happen. It primes you to be on the defensive although everything might just as well be very easy and relaxed. By priming you to be in confrontation mode, you become more likely to react negatively to the smallest thing.

The only thing I see that could disengage this catastrophic scenario building is adding more data so that the catastrophic scenarios become impossibilities. I have no easy example for that and in most cases, I believe it can hardly be done. For instance, what alternative is there to disengage the stress of the significant other not answering the phone, aside from getting in touch with them? What is there to know how a negotiation with the ex will go aside from doing the negotiation? Maybe some light information gathering, such as asking your lawyer to query the other lawyer about the intentions of the meeting, but still, it's hardly any factual proof that can remove the stress.