+++
date = "2018-03-25T18:56:53+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Finance Progress"

+++
... spent some time checking how the month progressed from a financial point of view. We're nearing the end of the month, which means I've been keeping everything recorded for almost a month. Even though I'm doing it every single day, it wasn't annoying to do, it only took a few minutes. It also forces me to think about it every day, see how it evolves, question myself whether I actually spent money on something that day. The other upside from doing it everyday is I'm quickly getting used to the software and get better at using it.

So, now I can watch my spending habits based on a single month. I'm surprised by the Income actually, it's much better when put together for a single month than when seeing it in smaller chunks. Nevertheless, the expense is also very high. We spent 917$ so far for groceries, and it's not done yet, my wife has some more stuff to buy tomorrow. We spent nearly 300$ on restaurants alone. They each individually seem to not be that much, but when added together, it starts to pile up rather quickly. There's also about 130$ in taxes and tips. That's a lot. And the worst actually are account fees. In that category I also consider the interest in it totals 255$ for this month alone. That's a lot.

I've been looking at ways to reduce on some stuff we pay for every months. One that comes to mind is our home phone. It costs 27$ but we use it maybe once a month. We both have cell phones, so it doesn't make sens to keep it. It's the same number we've had for 13 years so it's one of the reason we didn't cut it, but 27$ every month to keep a number is just silly. So that's one thing we'll have to get rid of. But, while we're at it, I checked the internet plan we're paying for, and we could get the same plan from Ebox for nearly 20$ less per month. That's huge as well. That would mean an extra 45$ to put on debts every month.

Another thing we're paying for but barely using is our cell phone plan. We're paying nearly 65$ for each phone, we got two. It's because of the internet plan that comes with it. The thing is, we stay home so we got this WiFi, and if I'm not home, I'm at work with the job WiFi. We could actually drop it to be at about 30-35$ per month per phone if we cut internet. The only issue is since we haven't bought the phones, we cannot remove the internet from the plan without also buying back our phones. I counted, and until the plan is over, it's not worth cancelling right now. It means nearly 500$ to buy them right away. I'd rather put that 500$ on a credit card.

Finally, I decided to measure the month success by one metric, the total liabilities. I just want to see it drop every month until it reaches 0$. That's gonna be a long run, but I know it's doable. So far, it hasn't dropped nearly as much as I wanted it to, but I know of a few things we can change. Once I get back with The Plan, I'll add in things that will help keep track of the spending habits that I noticed. Things such as not buying lunch or coffee. That could save maybe 50-100$ per month. On top of the internet/phone plan, that could go to almost 150$ more on debts.