+++
date = "2018-04-15T19:58:13+00:00"
title = "Climbing Improvement"

+++
... spent some time watching videos about climbing techniques and ideas to improve oneself at bouldering. Some are ideas of challenges while others are simple techniques on how to climb.

The first things I remember seeing about is regarding positioning the feet the right way. There is a big area at the tip of the feet that can easily stick anyway while climbing. The middle and the heel aren't really good to stick anywhere. The other thing with the tip of the feet is that they allow for easier movement because you can easily rotate the feet from one angle to the other while on a hold, increasing the mobility of the legs. Standing on the middle prevents those movements. They also talked about standing on volumes. They say to always align your feet so the toes are pointing at the top of the volume. This aligns the feet with the volume and help with the weight put on them, so they stick better.

Another thing I saw was about the different types of holds. There's no surprise there as I've already used them all. The only interesting aspect is that it reminded me on some methods I could use mostly on crimps. I rarely try those, and whenever I do, I'm always doing it with the hand fully open. Practicing a half-crimp would give me more strength without causing any risks of injury. Many say to never fully crimp with indoor climbing as it is only going to cause pain and injuries, and doesn't make you any better, it only makes it possible to pass a difficult problem. On the other hand, learning with half-crimp improves the ability and makes it less likely that a full crimp will be needed even outdoor.

I also saw a video where someone explained how to get better at holding on boards for a long period of time. Turns out that it has a lot to do with shoulder position. Rather than staying with the arms completely extended, they say you should engage the shoulders to raise yourself and slightly flex your arms. It really changed the angle of the body under the board. It might also be an example of why I can't really do chin ups even though I'm not that week.

Another interesting technique to force yourself to learn feet placement while doing roofs is to always force yourself to keep your hand over for a second or two right above the hold before catching it. It means that the feet are keeping you in place and actually pushing you up, rather than you pulling up with your arms. The feet placement is really something that slowly becomes easier and makes a big difference in how easy a route is. In roof it's however still difficult as the feet must be pressed strongly on the holds to actually hold.

Then there were some exercises to get better with dynos. The first exercise is basically to find a good wall with two good hand holds and two good feet hold, and then to learn to release both hands at once to catch a third hold slightly higher. The concept of this exercise is that you need to learn to let go of both hands at once while on a wall. The next exercise is on the same kind of starting point, but rather than catching a third hold, you also press hard on your legs to propel yourself up and then just land right behind, standing. The goal is not to catch something but to get used to the propelling part. It always starts with being at the lowest point and ends at the highest point. They also talked about sideways dynos, only for the fact that sometimes people start their swing in the wrong direction and adjust to the right direction on the very last move. Instead, the first swings in preparation to the jump should already be in the right angle.

Lastly, I saw and interesting puzzle which is climbing limbo. They basically put a bar midway through an horizontal route and people had to complete the route while being below the bar. It is interesting because it can force some specific techniques on small walls.