+++
date = "2018-01-06T18:12:28+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Predicting our Future"

+++
... listened to the episode [You 2.0: Decide Already!](https://www.npr.org/2017/08/21/545097480/you-2-0-why-were-bad-at-predicting-our-own-happiness-and-how-we-can-get-better) of the Hidden Brain podcast on npr. In this episode, Daniel Gilbert from the Harvard University, author of the book [Stumbling on Happiness](https://www.amazon.ca/Stumbling-Happiness-Daniel-Gilbert/dp/0676978584), explains how the prediction people make about future events are actually not accurate.

People are not good at predicting emotion about how things will unfold. We always believe that buying a new car will make us happy but it's just "nice". We think that Losing a job would be terribly, but it's actually the best thing that could have happened.

Daniel Gilbert explains that when we have to chose between options, once we chosen one, we can't believe that we even debated those options. He says that it is because our mind convinces us that the thing we got is better than the thing we had, that our mind make us feel better about the world in which we find ourselves. He calls that rationalization.

He says that more freedom does not always mean more happiness. (Is that a Collective Fiction?) He talks about a study in which they taught people how to do black and white photos. At the end of the class, they would tell the students that they could only pick one of two pictures they made. A first group was told that they could chance their mind and exchange the picture. The second group was told that they could not change their mind, as the other picture would be sent elsewhere. When they got back to the people in the study, the first group was less happy with their choice than the second group, because they still had the option to chose, while the second group rationalized the decision.

They also asked another group of people in which group they would prefer to be, and almost everyone would rather be in the first group where they would still have an open choice. When we make an irrevocable decision, the mind rationalize it and convinces us it's the best decision we could have made, so an irrevocable decision turns out to be easier to live with.

They also did a study where people had to estimate how much they would change in the future. All people underestimated how much they would change. Another group was asked how much they have changed in the past 10 years, it was always much more than they expected 10 years ago. It turned out to be true for every group of age. Even at 60, they say they won't change anymore, they're done with that, yet at 70 they still realize they have changed a lot more than expected.

We don't learn from those prediction, we are not getting better at predicting the future. It's like an optical illusion, we can't see the future in an accurate way.

Daniel Gilbert says the best way to predict your future is actually finding people who are that future right now and ask them how it is, but we never listen to that. They created a speed dating clinic in which they told the women that they could either learn all about the men they were about to meet or get told by another women who dated that same person how it was. Then, from what they chose, they'd have to predict how it will go. They would always prefer to be told everything the guy rather than be told how it was from someone else, as they believed their judgment was better at predicting how things would go, and that they aren't like the others so the experience of the others doesn't apply.

When we can get the experience from someone that is our future self, that person experience is almost always a better prediction than whatever we can imagine, and we should learn from those experiences.