+++
date = "2018-03-12T19:42:38+00:00"
draft = true
title = "TBD"

+++
... read and searched about many small subjects. Nothing very impressive but I'll document them nevertheless.

The first thing I spent time searching is a mechanical keyboard that would have a smaller form factor. I currently use a tenkeyless mechanical keyboard with Cheery MX brown switches. It works great,except for the fact that I do not need the arrows as well as the end/home block and the print screen keys. Those keys increase the distance between my hand and my mouse, which mean more movement. It might sound stupid but since we spend so much time using the mouse, why not remove the useless stuff between the two. 

Out of all the keyboards I saw, there are two that look very interesting, namely the [Ergodox-EZ](https://ergodox-ez.com/) and the [Mistel Keyboard](http://www.mistelkeyboard.com/keyboards/). They both have the advantage of allowing each hand to be at an optimal angle. They also have very little keys, mostly what's important to use. The Mistel Keyboard comes with a regular qwerty setup while the Ergodox-EZ comes with a very different layout and uses thumbs much more. The Ergodox-EZ would be a much harder learning curve than the Mistel Keyboard. After all, I only use the escape for vim, which could be bound to the caps lock key instead (I changed my settings today for that : setxbkmap -option caps:escape), and the function keys while gaming (can be changed), for webpage refresh (Ctrl + R) or while in htop (could it be configured without?). In any case, my current setup, although not optimal, has very little downside and the upside of changing might not be worth it.

I also started reading [The Intelligent Investor](https://www.amazon.com/Intelligent-Investor-Definitive-Investing-Essentials/dp/0060555661/ref=as_sl_pc_qf_sp_asin_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=1e3e2c9c4983efac6efede93555eb72d&creativeASIN=0060555661). I only finished the introduction but I believe it will be a good read. It seem to make a difference between the bear and the bull (which I don't know anything about yet), but from what I gather, they are different investment strategies, one where the investor buy as the market rises and sell as it goes low, and the other one doing the opposite. It seems to focus mostly on the behavior and psychology regarding investing than it does on technical analysis, which is good for the time being. I believe it will be helpful in understanding better what investing is globally, and understand the difference with trading.

I also checked other stuff, such as a macro system for javascript named [Sweetjs](https://www.sweetjs.org/). It could be useful to build a kind of meta language that generates javascript, say a minimalist UI library with repeating patterns that require a lot of boilerplate. But it requires transpiling to generate the right javascript output. If the case of a more scripting meta language, something along the line of [Rhai](https://github.com/jonathandturner/rhai) might be more appropriate. It allows the creation of an interface through which the script can communicate without actually requiring any compilation. I'm not really sure how to build a scripting language to present as a frontend to a limited subset of functionalities, but I believe it will be one of these method.