+++
date = "2018-03-19T20:37:15+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Trading Types and Strategies"

+++
... spent a lot of time reading about trading and investment strategies on the web (so it doesn't count as a book for The Plan). The thing I read that was the most useful was a classification of different trading strategies according to trading duration. It fits with what I explained yesterday of wanting to better understand things and gradually come up with a strategy for that paper trading.

First of, I read about 4 time range of trading as opposed to the 3 I listed in a previous post. I classified Day Trading as short term, but it is summarized differently in [this post](http://www.stock-trading-infocentre.com/types-of-stock-trading.html). So, in summary :

Day trading is basically just that, trades happening over a single day and all stocks being sold before the end of the market. It is not advised for beginner and is a type of trading I would only touch for fun with a very small amount, therefore not accessible. The strategies he lists are arbitrage, market making, momentum day trading, pattern trading, scalping, rebate trading, price action trading, swing trading and news playing. Each has its own method and the description for each should be searched individually. The 2 most interesting from my point of view is momentum day trading, pattern trading and swing trading.

Short term is for a trade period of over a day to a few weeks. Only 2 strategies are listed for short term trading, swing trading and pattern trading. Strangely, I already said that swing trading seemed more interesting to me than day trading, and of the strategies that I'd use for day trading, 2/3 are strategies for short term trading, which reinforce my impression that I shouldn't do day trading but short term trading instead.

Next is medium term trading. It could still be considered short term trading, but instead of going from days to weeks, it goes from weeks to months. The 2 strategies mentioned are swing trading and Elliot wave trading. It could basically work like short term trading with a different time period of the bars but with the same technical analysis from what I understand.

Lastly there is long term trading. I previously wrote that it comes down to buy and hold, with is also what is said in this post. But another strategy mentioned is value investing. Long term trading gives more value to fundamental analysis than technical analysis.

The types of stock trading were also classified in a different way, according to the trend. It's divided in 3 categories for that. There is trend following, under which swing trading, momentum trading, pattern trading and Elliot wave trading fall. So, from my understanding, it is a method I should learn. There is the contrarian investing where the trader is actually going against the trend. When the stock goes down, he assumes it will reverse and try to get in. Is actually look like what I have been doing naturally with the paper trading so far, but he says that kind of trading requires a lot of experience to be able to anticipate those trend reversal. It also goes against momentum which states that a trend is more likely to stay in the direction in which it is. Finally there is range trading which buys at the low level of a range and sell at the high level of that range. It's a kind of linear trend that needs indicators of support and resistance to be used.

According to what Robert T. Koyisaki said, it looks as if contrarian trading makes more sens. From what I remember, he talked about people being taught to buy then it goes up and sell when it goes down, which is basically what momentum trading says. In opposition, contrarian trading says buy when it goes down and sell when it goes low. But I suppose it depends on the moment you go in with the current rend. Momentum trading indeed says to buy when it goes up, but not when it's at the highest. Couldn't it be in an upward trend after a downfall? Similarly, selling when it goes down would be during a downward trend right after a peak. In both cases, the gap between the buy and sell should be pretty high.

Maybe it comes down to figuring the overall trend buy also making sure the more localized (shorter term) trend fits with the action to make. Such as not buying stocks for something that has an upward trend for the past 200 weeks but is slowly going downward for the past 200 days, unless it also has an upward trend of the past 50 days, and maybe even 20 days. That seeing an increase in 200 weeks doesn't mean an increase in 200 days or 50 days, but in conjunction, they tell you a better picture of how it's going to evolve. Similarly, the crossover should be checked, etc. Rules will have to be established, but I'm slowly seeing something interesting being drawn.