+++
date = "2018-02-08T20:18:18+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Evolutionary Teal"

+++
... read a little more of [Reinventing Organizations](https://www.amazon.ca/Reinventing-Organizations-Creating-Inspired-Consciousness/dp/2960133501) by Frederic Laloux. I also spent some time reflecting on the concept of what is an Evolutionary - Teal paradigm organization.

I grew up on a farm, and one thing you start doing early on a farm is contribute to the work that has to be done. I believe I started working on a daily basis at around 9 or 10. I wasn't doing much by every day I would have to go do one thing at the farm. It was only getting hay bales down to feed the cows with it, but I had to do that every day. There were times when we had to help with other things.

I still remember the first job I had outside of the farm, in a vegetable processing factory. Everyone had their role and I had mine, but I didn't get it really. Whenever I was seeing something that needed to be done, I'd do it, because someone had to. That's how I grew up, doing things when they had to be done. For the next few jobs I had, it wasn't as true. More and more I was hired for a specific role and I wasn't stepping out of it. In restaurants I would still help when asked, or offer help sometimes, but it wasn't expected of me, it was considered very helpful. Once I had a first desk job, that went out entirely. No more could I help when I was seeing my team lead overloaded with work.

The link with a teal organization? There aren't really any job titles in a teal organization. People are in small teams that self organize to do what needs to be done, from start to finish. Need to hire a new colleague? Or have an idea for a brand new product? Or have to sign a deal with a customer and start producing the goods? All done by the same team, with no one having a specific role.

Many people looking at it seem to be thinking teal organizations are fool and it can only end badly because of human nature. I believe it is only a misunderstanding of human nature. The more I read about it and I think about it, the more I believe the structure of orange organization, the roles and hierarchy, are simply a way to create an understanding and a belief of control. It's needed to spell out to people how an organization works for those that don't understand human behaviors and interactions. The only reason we have job titles is so that others might get a glimpse at what we are actually doing and contributing to. It's causing us to segment and limit what we can do and touch. Doing something under someone else role would be a threat to that other person role.

The thing is, given a group of people with all good intentions (which teal organization believes in), roles naturally appear, without name, without writing down a chart. The natural leaders will help with that. If someone needs hiring, the group will feel it because they work to hard, they have to put extra time. And they'll know who to hire, it's going to be one of them. If someone is not pulling his weight, the group will naturally adjust. If someone needs to change things, the group will follow through.

Everything orange and amber organizations are trying to do with their structure and roles and hierarchy is something that happens organically, but is harder to grasp when human behaviors and human nature are not understood well.