+++
date = "2018-01-27T18:54:51+00:00"
title = "TBD"

+++
... listened to the [Losing Alaska](https://www.npr.org/2016/04/18/474685770/why-our-brains-werent-made-to-deal-with-climate-change) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, they explore the issue of climate change from a different perspective.

The episode starts at the Mendenhall glacier in Alaska. The glacier has receded nearly two miles in the last century. Many visitors of the glacier are directly making a connection between what they are seeing and climate change. In the podcast, explain how the glacier receding isn't in itself a proof of climate change, as it happens naturally, but the rate at which it happens is unprecedented, proof of human impact on the climate. They interrogate many tourists while at the glacier, and some, even when seeing the glacier receding at such speed, are not convinced the climate changes is even caused by humanity.

They eventually wonder why people do not believe in empirical evidence and the fact that it is a highly important matter that must be resolved. They talk with George Marshall, author of [Don't Even Think About It: Why Our Brains Are Wired to Ignore Climate Change](https://www.amazon.ca/Dont-Even-Think-About-Climate/dp/1620401339). He believes the biggest roadblock for climate change is in the human brain. He explains it with three things. First is that we have a hard time working for and thinking about things that will happen far in the future. They are so out of sight that we forget or dismiss them. Second, that we are averse to cost, and drawn to rewards. We tend to push back anything that has a cost and no reward, doing it only at the last minute if we must. Third, we do not like to handle uncertainty. We tend to prefer to wait until we're certain to take action. Climate change is all three for some, uncertain, distant future, and only cost.

He illustrates the human behavior with an example of when someone was stuck in traffic, wondering what was going on. It slowly moved until he reached a point where a mattress was right in the middle of the road. He wondered to himself why was a mattress doing there blocking the traffic, and continued on his way out of it. Why has no one moved the mattress out? Because they already paid by waiting, now they are done with it, and moving the mattress would only bring an additional cost for them, and only the others would benefit from it.

He explains that we see the climate change as an economic issue, but should instead think of it as our own issue, to have the world as we want it to be, for us and future generations. It is the way we think about it and behave around it that is preventing us from believing it and fixing it.