+++
date = "2018-04-13T19:05:31+00:00"
title = "Mnemonic and Ok Plateau"

+++
... started reading another chapter of [Moonwalking With Einstein](https://www.amazon.com/Moonwalking-Einstein-Science-Remembering-Everything/dp/0143120530/ref=as_sl_pc_qf_sp_asin_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=ed04a2458b6b056f6788ee21e5ceb646&creativeASIN=0143120530) by Joshua Foer. In this chapter, he talked about methods to memorize things faster, and the difficulties he had while trying to get ready for a memory competition.

The first thing he talked about was the [Major System](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mnemonic_major_system) used to remember digits. The concept is that consonants are associated to digits. When a number is to be remembered, the consonants can form words with vowels being whatever fits. This way, groups of numbers become words that can then be remembered more easily than numbers. For instance, under that system, 32 would be MN, which could be "man". The number 127 would be TNK which could be remembered as "tank". This method however isn't used in competition as it is too slow.

They then go on to the method actually used in competition, the Person-Action-Object method or PAO for short. The concept of PAO is to take each number between 0 and 99 and associate a person doing an action with an object. For instance, they cites 32 being Michel Jackson doing the moonwalk with a white glove. Another number, say 42, could be David Beckham kicking a soccer ball. And 88 could be Bart Simpson writing on a chalk board. When the number 324288 has to be remembered, it takes the person of the first pair, the action of the second pair, and the object of the third pair to form Michael Jackson kicking a chalk board. They explain that the best mnemonist use this technique from 0 to 999 so they can form much bigger number segments and therefore memorize things faster. The very same technique is also used for decks of cards, where each card has its own PAO.

Eventually the author talks about a point at which he wasn't getting better even though he kept practicing. He was collaborating with someone that told him to check how people learn typing skills. As it turns out, it's pretty much the same thing with anything we learn. We always start with a lot of struggling, then eventually get better, and keep doing it, until we reach the point known as the OK Plateau. The OK Plateau is when we are psychologically satisfied with the performance. For instance, I can write at about 80 to 90 words per minutes, but hardly get any better. I still do about the same amount of mistakes and I'm slow on the same key strokes. That's because to go beyond the OK Plateau, we have to do deliberate practice, that conscious harder period of training to improve with a skill. Deliberate practice requires failures to learn from these failures. They give the example of different sports where someone can either keep practicing the same move he already successfully does, or doing deliberate practice on the move that he fails. The first will not really improve, while the second will, because of that extra effort.

This concept of deliberate practice has already been talked about in many books I read, and clearly has a solid ground. What it makes me want to try is to focus again on learning the "right way to type" not to become faster per say but to become faster typing this way. I know why my typing speed is limited. I hardly use two fingers on my right hand, so I'm moving them on much greater distance and cannot write quickly enough with this hand. With the right method, I would be using all my fingers, maybe putting less strain on those I'm constantly using at the moment, reducing the wrist movements, and maybe eventually become faster than that naturally learned method. This deliberate practice would force me to get better while only typing for typing wouldn't. Another method they talk about to forcibly improve at something is to force the same activity at about 10% to 20% increased speed. This way, you force yourself to make more mistakes to learn from. That would mean typing faster with my currently limited method, which I doubt is the best way to go at the current time, but would totally make sens as I would be learning the right way.