+++
date = "2018-02-12T19:42:35+00:00"
title = "Thoughtful Discussions"

+++
... thought about discussions and how our brain works while engaged in a conversation on a specific subject. A couple of days ago, I realized that I changed the subject to something I recently read while talking with a colleague. It didn't stop me from talking on the subject, but as I was doing it, I realized it might not have been that relevant in the current conversation. Today, in a meeting, I had the same reflection come up before I would even speak. I wondered whether it was really relevant or if it only seemed relevant because I found a small overlap of subject between something I recently learned and something a colleague was saying.

I believe this is the concept of [Switchtracking](https://www.todayi.life/post/2018-01-08/), changing the subject of the conversation and ending with two parallel conversations, potentially going into separate directions. With switchtracking, the switch could happen in someone's head, not even be said out loud. I remember today that when my brain thought about the subject I wanted to add, I got stuck on it for a while. I believe it took nearly 10 minutes before I brought it up for real. Does that mean that all the other parts of the conversation that were taking place were transformed by what I had in mind, and I was perceiving it differently than what was actually going on?

I believe it is a good step to realize when I might be doing it. After the meeting, I even asked someone that was in the room whether I actually did switchtracking, to help me figure whether my intuition was wrong or not. Apparently, in this case, it was not and the subjects I brought really were relevant. But it could have been the other way around, and that's the kind of situation that I want to notice ahead of time and hold myself as it might actually be detrimental to the conversation.

One last thing about the realization of switchtracking. As I was noticing it during the discussion, I wondered whether it was actually switchtracking or not. This was a distraction of my part which most likely made me lose some focus, which is also in itself detrimental. This brings up the same issue as when someone thinks about what he's gonna reply to someone else as that someone else is talking, effectively making that exchange moot. Could the realization of what is actually going on in my mind be more negative than positive? I think not, but it might have its shadows.