+++
date = "2018-02-03T20:57:18+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Organizational Models"

+++
... started reading [Reinventing Organizations](https://www.amazon.ca/Reinventing-Organizations-Creating-Inspired-Consciousness/dp/2960133501) by Frederic Laloux. More specifically, I read the chapter about the organizational models currently existing. Most of the chapter is from the Red to Green models, but starts off with two models that almost entirely disappeared.

The first model is the **Reactive - Infra-red paradigm**. It coincides with the most early stage of consciousness, before realizing we are distinct from the group. It fits for very small families and was there about 100K to 50K years ago. At this level, there is no leader, no role, no division of labor, everyone does the same thing to survive.

The second model is the **Magic - Magenta paradigm**. It was there around 15K years ago and coincides with the distinction of the self from the group, but still without much roles or leaders. It fits the size of tribes, with shamans or elders. In this stage, people live mostly in the present with some knowledge of the past.

The third model is the **Impulsive - Red paradigm**. It's the first form of organization that appeared 10K years ago. The self is fully detached from the group and the world, a realization that is frightening. It makes the world feel dangerous and people must be strong and tough to fulfill their needs. Showing power is the way to go, the strongest is at the top. It's the organizational model of the mafia, prisons, civil wars.

The fourth model is the **Conformist - Amber paradigm**. It is where most people are in their development. The concept of past, present and future is well understood and people start to plan. That's a stage where agriculture appears, where one plans for next year. At this stage, people develop a deeper awareness of others. Social norms are established in those groups, order, stability. In this stage, you are what you were born as and you can't change that. It's the organizational model of government agencies, public schools, religious institutions.

The fifth model is the **Achievement - Orange paradigm**. At this stage, people no longer see it as a world dominated by immutable rules like in the Amber stage, but as a world where inner laws can be investigated and understood. There is no more absolute right and wrong and instead, one can play with it to achieve something bigger. It has brought with it innovation and entrepreneurship. Effectiveness is a word they follow. In this stage, you can become whatever you can achieve. Most modern corporations fall under that stage.

The sixth model is the **Pluralistic - Green paradigm**. At this stage, successes and failures are not much for concerns anymore. The green seek to be equal and fair, where words such as community, cooperation, consensus and harmony is heard. The relationships are much more valuable than the goals. At this stage, there is no more hierarchy, everyone is at the same level and can have a meaningful impact. Very few organization full under that stage.

The seventh model is the **Evolutionary - Teal paradigm**. I have yet to read about this one.