+++
date = "2018-04-22T19:16:40-04:00"
title = "April Accounting"

+++
... did the account for the past two weeks and realized some things. First, for only two weeks it took 1h30 minutes to fill out everything. If we compare to 5 minutes every day for 14 days, it's slightly higher, probably because doing it all at once requires more sorting and memory than doing it every day. Further more, not keeping an eye on it daily makes it less likely to notice how much you spend. We spent more money this month than we did the one before that, and I assume it is because I wasn't checking everything out every day. The debt didn't even move this month, which is very unfortunate but also my own fault.

So, rather than leaving things this way, I decided that after two months, I knew what I would spend money on and how much I would be making. I made a budget divided in 4 parts. The first part is how much I make every month. The second is what expenses I cannot diminish or avoid, such as minimum payment on loans, internet access, the rent, medicines, etc. The third part is how much I want to put in extra to diminish the debt, not just what I can afford, being that the goal is to get rid of it as quickly as possible. Lastly, it's all the things I can move around, diminish, figure ways to change it, such as restaurant, groceries, clothes, etc. Although I must eat every month, the amount I spend on it is not set in stone such as with contracts. Therefore I can squeeze this with whatever is left after everything.

Once that was done, I decided to lay out all the incomes and expenses for the very next month, and how I want to tackle the debt. I also included extra stuff in it. Since next month is a 3 paycheck month, the income will be weird, so I included two rent in that month. Furthermore, we both have activities we want to do near the end of the month that will cost us. Therefore, with the right planning, I'll be able to pay everything I can pay at the very end of the month while still being able to go on a trip, and without neglecting anything. Now, it will all be about respecting this planning. I laid out everything I have to pay, but the last thing I need to do with that is planning when I'm gonna pay what, so I'll have all the money that comes in already planned for something, rather than just there.

Although I haven't been very strict in April, I'm not dissatisfied only for the fact that it didn't get any worst, and I was able to see for a second month in a row a definite portrait of my spending. I also changed internet service which will reduce my bill quite a bit, and cut on some recurring plans, so all I got left amounts to 25$ bucks for music and TV Shows. Cutting that small amount would reduce quality of life much more than the extra 25$ on debt would, so it's a fair deal. We also spent less in restaurant this month, so I believe we're close to the no restaurant which would be a nice saving. In terms of food we're still paying a lot, but I believe we can make some improvements without diminishing the quality of the food we eat, by instead growing stuff ourselves for things such as salads.

Another thing I thought about today, which has nothing to do with accounting is about running. I want to start running again next week (I checked the track where I run and there's still snow on the south river). The goal is to run a full marathon this year, and I believe I can do it. This week I'll have to plan a schedule so that next week I can officially start with a specific goal in mind. I'll probably try and see about trail running rather than running on the road, but I do not have shoes specific for trail running yet. Maybe it could be a reward if I stick with the workout until July, so that way I could have good shoes for the rest for the summer down to the race in October.