+++
date = "2018-03-31T17:51:07+00:00"
draft = true
title = "TBD"

+++
... read a little more of [Moonwalking With Einstein](https://www.amazon.com/Moonwalking-Einstein-Science-Remembering-Everything/dp/0143120530/ref=as_sl_pc_qf_sp_asin_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=ed04a2458b6b056f6788ee21e5ceb646&creativeASIN=0143120530) by Joshua Foer but that's not what I want to write about. I also took a small walk while thinking about my mid to long term future, how what I'm currently doing fits in all that, and whether it's the right direction. You know, the usual. To figure whether what I'm doing fits with where I'm going, I need to better know where I'm going. To know where I'm going, I need to know what I want to do. I have several things I want to do.

Professionally, what stands out is helping people learn how to do things. As I said before, I seem to have some capacities regarding that. But today, I also realized something. When I think about kids, about having my own, the only thing that really appeals me in that picture is teaching them to be curious, seeing them learn stuff, and helping them learn. I can do that with many kids, with any kid actually. So, teaching is probably going to be a big part of my future, I just don't know in which way.

Next is the things I want to have done in my life. The adventures and the big goals. I already have listed a few in here, such as learning a new language and learning to play piano. But there are others I really want to do.

When I ran my first half-marathon, I learned about the Iron Man triathlon. It's a very long and difficult race that lasts between 8 and 18 hours. It's basically the equivalent of running several marathons in a row. I'd like to finish one in my life. It would be a really difficult thing to do, but I know the end result would be amazing. I'm not sure about the workout time requirements, which is the big things holding me back. I'd have to learn to ride a bike fast enough, I'd have to learn to swim in open water and quickly enough. I'd have to be strong enough to do all three in a row, without a break.

Another thing I'd like to try is to rope climb a mountain. I don't know how big, how long, but I'd really like to be able to climb one for real. I already tried indoor rope climbing and I didn't enjoy it that much, but outdoor must be a completely different experience. I'd have to learn about the ropes for real, and I'd have to practice a lot to eventually be able to climb for several hours.

The next stop is doing a hike of at least a month. There are very long trails out there, and going on one of them for several days would be an amazing adventure. That would test my physical endurance, walking with all this weight on my shoulders, handling my food and water, the bad weather, anything nature could throw at me. There are several very long trails in Canada and the U.S. that take months to do from one end to the next. Any stretch of these would be a very interesting hike.

I would also like to work remotely, homeless if you will, for a year. I say homeless in the sense that I'd get rid of my apartment and go on visiting countries and renting places here and there while working remotely. I could visit some country and learn to live with very little in terms of things I own, focusing on what's around and meeting people. I think that trip would be better off by staying at or near people we already know, or people who could help us with that. For instance, going to live at friends for a month in the U.S., or in Switzerland, or Sweden. We could visit a lot of places that way, and our contacts would be able to introduce us to many great things in their area. I would really love such experience.

Another last thing I'd like to do in my life is starting my own business. Apparently it's harder than it seems, and I believe it probably is difficult. But I want to try this challenge. In such position, I wouldn't be able to push problems I don't want to handle to someone else. I would have to learn to deal with everything that comes at me. I could also try to push for something different in terms of business culture, and maybe make a difference in the industry I'd be in. I don't think I'd like to create a business to make it grow big, but to be a success would be amazing either way.

Considering all this, a year of learning and writing is a good thing. I can learn things that could be useful for all of those things. 