+++
date = "2018-02-28T19:30:37+00:00"
title = "Generally Accepted Accounting Principles"

+++
... read the second part of [Accounting Made Simple](https://www.amazon.com/Accounting-Made-Simple-Explained-Pages/dp/0981454224/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=610acf5675e1a4afee40bc3583078bb2&creativeASIN=0981454224) by Mike Piper. In this part, he talks about the GAAP, which is a framework of accounting created by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Publicly traded companies are forced to follow the GAAP guidelines by the Securities and Exchange Commission, but are quite often used by non-publicly traded companies as well.

**Double-Entry Accounting**

He starts off by explaining the concept of **double-entry accounting**. It's quite simple: each transaction results in two entries being made. It's done with **debits** and **credits** transactions on the accounts. The two terms a used to express two halves of each transactions, the debit being on the left and the credit on the right. Usually, we understand debit as decreasing the amount and credit as increasing the amount, but as he explains, it is not exactly like that :

> * A debit entry will increase an asset account, and it will decrease a liability or owner's equity account.
> * A credit entry will decrease an asset account, and it will increase a liability or owner's equity account.

So, they are not exactly as we would first think. It depends on the nature of the account on which the operation occurs. The same goes for incomes and expenses, where the credit is used for an income but the debit is used for an expense.

He also talks about the **general ledger** which is basically the place where all the entries are recorded. He cites QuickBooks as an example of a software doing just that. GnuCash would fall under that category as well.

He then explains the concept of **t-accounts**, which is used to see all the activities that occurred in a single account over a period of time. It gets its name from the shape it usually has, with the title at the top and then below debit and credit columns. It starts with a beginning balance and ends with an ending balance.

He finally talks about the **trial balance** which is a method in which all the debits and credits transactions are summed up and should be equal to prove that no amount is missing from one side of the other.

**Accrual Method**

The accrual method serves to recognize revenue in the period in which the service is provided, regardless of when it is paid for. It works in pair with the statement of retained earnings, as it actually is the amount when the exchange of service took place, not when it actually was paid.

He also explains how it is used to calculate **prepaid expenses** and **unearned revenue** more gradually. For instance, the prepaid expenses would be calculated in multiple steps to show the gradual expense. He cites rent being paid by batch of 3 months, but only one month being recorded at a time in the rent expense, all the prepaid one going into a specific prepaid account. As for the unearned revenue, it's the same thing but from the landlord perspective.

**Historical Cost**

It's the concept that something is considered to be the value it was bought for rather than the current estimated value. That comes from the fact that for instance, the price paid for a building is exact and precise, while the current value of the building is subjective at best.

**Materiality**

It's the concept that the impact of a transaction can have an impact on decisions or not. For instance, a material transaction would be a loan from a bank. From an external point of view, missing that transaction in the ledger would greatly impact decisions. However, an immaterial transaction, for instance buying paper for the printer, would not change any decision making if it was missing from the book.

**Monetary Unit Assumption**

Although the value of money changes over time, it is assumed that the dollar value is stable. The reason behind this assumption is that making all the required calculation to take into account that fluctuation has marginal gain compared to the cost required to make those adjustments.

**Entity Assumption**

It's basically just that the owner of a business is not considered to be the same as the business. Whenever he needs to use money, he actually has to do a transaction to take it out to himself and then use it.

**Matching Principle**

It's a concept where expenses must be matched to the revenues that they help generate. So, the expenses of a month need to be recorded for the same month than the revenues. Maybe the utility expenses of March are paid in April, but they were used to generate revenue in March and it should be reflected as such.

**Depreciation of Fixed Assets**

This part talks about how assets need to have their value reduced overtime as they actually lose value. Usually, when buying an asset, we expected it to go out of use after a period of time. The printer will maybe last 5 years, at which point its value for the business will be 0.

There are multiple methods to do that sort of calculations :

* Straight-Line Depreciation
* Double Declining Balance
* Units of Production

They all serve the same purpose, where the value is gradually changed in the book until it reaches zero, the straight-line being a constant change, the double declining balance being a compound process, and the units of production being relative to the production of goods from the assets.

The immaterial assets (similar to the immaterial transactions in concept) are not really recorded for such as they are not impacting the books very much. Also, the concept really only apply for things lasting longer than a year.

**Inventory and Goods Sold**

Finally, the last thing he talks about in his book is the inventory keeping, with its two methods : **perpetual method of inventory** and **periodic method of inventory**.

The perpetual method simply is a constant tracking of everything in the inventory. Think about goods with bar codes scanned. Everything owned is registered in a database and known at all time, so knowing the cost of goods sold over a period of time is precise.

The periodic method on the other hand only has inventory at the beginning and the end of a period but nothing in between. It requires different strategies to calculate the cost of goods sold, by adding the beginning inventory with the inventory purchases and removing the ending inventory. The missing part is the goods sold.

However, as price of assets may fluctuate over that period of time, how do we keep the exact count of goods sold? There are three methods, the concepts of **FIFO**, **LIFO** and **Average Cost**. They basically work as expected, the first units in being the first units out, or the last units in being the first units out, or the average of the units price over the period of time.
