+++
date = "2018-03-16T18:34:38+00:00"
title = "Paper Trading"

+++
... spent a good part of my day doing paper trading. It started when I searched for a nice way to track different stock options to start to learn how to read stocks and see what to pay attention to while trading. I wanted to try the [Investopedia Simulator](https://www.investopedia.com/simulator/home.aspx) but needed something to keep the stocks listed. I already started using [TradingView](https://www.tradingview.com/) but wanted to try a desktop application. I installed [TC2000](https://www.tc2000.com/) (yes, the name is lame) with a trial account and started fiddling with it.

In terms of UI, it is heavy, but everything is there. I found out that I could create a watchlist or simply favorite some stock. I searched a while before I figured how to search for stocks, and then it was easy to use. I created a list of stocks I'd like to keep an eye on and was pleased to see everything updating throughout the day in my favorites stocks. I also noticed that I was in paper mode which allows to do paper trading within the app. I searched a bit to understand how to place orders and see how the trading works.

I decided to compare what I was seeing with TradingView, as TradingView has a less aggressive UI. I eventually saw that I could clear out the preset watchlist and fill it with my own stocks. It emulated the favorites I configured in TC2000 almost perfectly. As I was looking for those options, I also noticed that TradingView can be used to do paper trading and also supports several brokers. As soon as I figured that out, I decided to set the same trades in TradingView than I did in TC2000. That's when I noticed that 15 minutes lags in TC2000 as compared to TradingView.

Once I was setup with a few trades and the market opened, I decided to watch and fiddle to see what's what. I eventually noticed a stock I bought at a low price going lower still. I wanted to buy some more, but didn't notice the difference between the buy and sell order in the dialog, and sold all those I had bought at an even lower price. Although the UI in TradingView is cleaner, that difference wasn't obvious enough and I ended up selling something I wanted to buy more of. But I learned from that mistake and now I better understand their UI. I believe it is a good reason why to do paper trading first in a software before going for real trades.

Throughout the day I tried stuff, I watched the 15M or the 1D. I planned trades for much lower than currently traded, I traded stuff for the 15M without realizing that the stock was already at a top. I better understood the concept of having different wallets for different strategies. I also checked the first things I did and tried to figure out why I did them and if it was the right move. I barely understand what I'm doing with that simulation, but I already figured I need to find a strategy for when and why I buy something and when not to buy something. As I'll only be doing that over weekends and nights, I won't be able to do day trading and therefore should focus on swing trading and medium term technicals. It means I should develop a set of rules to follow for those trades and never do something that does check on all points. If those checks are technicals enough, maybe I could develop a software that checks them all for me given a symbol, since TradingView has an API.