+++
date = "2018-01-18T18:37:35+00:00"
title = "Habits"

+++
... started reading [The Power of Habit](https://www.amazon.com/Power-Habit-What-Life-Business/dp/081298160X/ref=as_sl_pc_tf_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=98a468dcb70061e9a5f26c9e7b3ce24a&creativeASIN=081298160X) by Charles Duhigg.

The book starts of by telling the story of Eugene Pauly, and man who could no longer form new memories after a virus destroyed a part of his brain. Through his life after the virus, he started to learn things unconsciously. He couldn't remember anything, but he developed new habits. Whenever asked where the kitchen was, he couldn't tell because he did not remember the place where he was, but when asked to go grab something in the kitchen, he would go there without hesitation. What scientists learned from Eugene Pauly was how habits develop somewhere else in the brain and how they are autopilots when specific cues are present.

The concept of habit is explained as "a cue triggers a routine which in turn gives a reward." That's a simple concept present everywhere. When we learned about conditioning rats, basically we taught their brain to look for a cue, perform a routine, and get a reward. They do not have the brain we have to reflect on what's happening and rationally understand that this behavior gives a reward. It's an entirely subconscious part of the brain that handles that.

The book also explains how it is highly used in advertising. They teach new habits by pointing at cues that already exist and then pointing at a reward that is desired. For instance, the toothpaste became used only when they introduced the cue of passing your tongue on your teeth to feel the film on it, and pointed at the reward of having a beautiful smile when cleaned with toothpaste. Until that cue, routine, reward was pointed out with ads, no one cared for toothpaste, but once it started appearing, people would think about brushing their teeth whenever they would feel their teeth and it became a habit to do so every day.

The book also explains how a simple habit loop is sometimes insufficient to live on its own. It needs another element: craving. The rats don't learn the behavior just from the cue, routine, reward. Their brain lights up when they get the rewards initially, but as the loop is repeated, their brain starts to light up before they get the reward, in anticipation. That is what craving is, anticipating the reward. That's how we develop habits.

For instance, I was cutting cheese for diner earlier, and as I was cutting it, I wanted to eat two slices. I always eat two slices when I cut cheese. I could feel the saliva as I was cutting it, but I decided to resist to see how difficult it could be to deny a craving such as this one. It became a habit to eat two slices, and doing it is easy, and once done, I can keep cutting cheese easily, I'm satisfied. The saliva was a sign that my brain was expecting the reward from the habit of eating cheese, and the cue was cutting cheese for diner. Whenever I'd see the slices again, the craving would creep up.

I do not know yet how to counter act those habits, but I know habits cannot be unlearned, they can only be superseded by a stronger habit. But what stronger habit could prevent me from salivating as I'm cutting cheese? I will probably see tens of habit loops over the next few days, and I'll be mad at my brain for forcing me to do things against my will.
