+++
date = "2018-02-24T19:19:11+00:00"
title = "Accounting And Budget"

+++
... spent most of my day figuring out what to use to keep track of my finances and have a better overview of my spending habits. I decided to go for something entirely manual, without bank account synchronization, so I have a better control over how the data is sorted. It also means I'll have to enter all the data manually every week or day which will be part of "The Plan" starting on March. Until then, the goal is to have the software ready and all the information required filled.

I decided to try both [GnuCash](https://www.gnucash.org/) and [HomeBank](http://homebank.free.fr/en/). Why both? Because I don't know what I'm doing, how either works, and which one will be better in the long run. By trying both out, I'll eventually just prefer one and stick to it. The selection will be natural.

So far, I tried setting up the base in GnuCash. As it is a double-entry account system, it means that every ins have to have outs as well. The money can't just appear in an account without being taken out of another. That was mind bugging at first as it created things such as Opening Balance in the Equity. However, when adding transactions, with the double-entry, it makes impossible to not balance. It is also quite intuitive to add transactions in accounts. On the budgeting part, it seems rather heavy to fill and matches the accounts you have. So, you end up creating expectation of how much will be in the expenses and incomes accounts to do your budget.

I also tried setting up HomeBank. It is easier to set up, you just create accounts with an initial balance and the account appears there with the right amount. The thing that messed me up a bit is to know whether the account is money you owe or money you have, you have to make it positive or negative. In a Liability account, usually, the amount is just the amount you owe, no need for the negative, but it looks like it does in HomeBank. I was able to quickly set everything up and then tried to make the budget. It works with categories for the incomes and expenses, different from the accounts. You set up expected amounts for each categories to create the budget. Also, when you do a transaction, you bind it to a category rather than an expense/income account. The downside I see is that when you mark that you pay a credit card debt for instance, you have to do two transactions, one debiting from the bank account, the other crediting the credit card account, while on a double-entry system, that would be a single transaction.

With both software, it's possible to schedule payment reminders with transactions already filled. However, as HomeBank requires two transactions, it means double the schedule to not forget to remove money from one side when putting it in the other. I believe mistakes are too easy this way.

The next steps to be ready for March is to know the exact amount for each liability and asset, to prepare the budget with my wife, and to prepare a debt payment plan. For the data, I only got one phone call left to do. For the budget, I need to discuss with my wife and tally up the data. It will be an on-going process, but I want to make drafts of what it could be if we follow the 50/20/30 model. The debt payment plan, I already know which needs to be focused first, we'll only need to figure the extra amounts we can put on it and stick to the plan. It will be mixed with the budget mostly.