+++
date = "2018-01-08T17:51:43+00:00"
title = "Switchtracking"

+++
... learned about the concept of [Switchtracking ](https://www.npr.org/2015/09/22/434597124/trying-to-change-or-changing-the-subject-how-feedback-gets-derailed)in the first episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, Sheila Heen explains what switchtracking it.

Switchingtracking is when "someone gives you feedback, and your reaction to that feedback changes the subject". So, rather than stay on the initial topic, the feedback, the topic is being changed to something entirely different for the second person, and yet both keep having the conversation, each sticking to their own topic.

One example that Sheila Heen uses to demonstrate that is the following:

> "Listen," Kim says. "Try not to  take this the wrong way, OK? But, if we're going to be married for the  next 30 years, I need you to know that red roses aren't my thing."
>
> Louie responds by changing the subject: "Okay well, um ... can I critique how you just told me that?"
>
> "I've told you before that I don't like red roses," Kim says. "Remember?"
>
> "I just think that you should have thanked me for the flowers first, and then said the thing about the roses," Louie respond_s._

When this happen, usually they are not even aware of the switchtracking that is taking place, neither party is aware that they are talking about different topic, and they keep drifting apart in the conversation.

Sheila explains that sometimes, that switchtracking happens without word, for instance when someone gets feedback from his boss and thinks replies that he keeps to himself. The switchtracking is still taking place, the person isn't listening to the feedback from the boss.

The interesting thing about that is we always do it, without noticing it. We never realize we're doing it, maybe it's because when given feedback we tend to be more on the defensive and not very rational. But perhaps, realizing that such thing happens might be beneficial to either receiving or giving feedback, as the conversation might be brought back on subject more easily.