+++
date = "2018-03-06T18:39:53+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Day Trading, Swing Trading, Whatever Trading..."

+++
... read about the different trading options that exist. By that I mean ways to invest money and make a profit by exchanging stuff. Turns our there are 3 methods used to trade and 3 markets on which one can trade. Each method apply to each market, and what varies is the minimal amount required to start the trading, the time investment, the frequency, and the margin.

The 3 methods come down to Day Trading, Swing Trading and Investing.

Day Trading is basically the method of selling and buying all the stock on the same day. This method focuses on short swings in the market values. It makes it possible to compound the investments very quickly by making money over the gain of the previous day. It is also easy to lose quickly. The issue with Day Trading is that at some point, if you succeed, you'll end up being unable to use all your assets every day and a lot of it will simply sit there not generating anything. For Day Trading, the best moment to make trades is during the first two hours after the markets open, which mean there is a very specific time period to be able to perform.

Swing Trading on the other hand doesn't buy and then sell on the same day. The stock can be kept for several days or weeks. Instead of focusing on short term swings, it focuses on medium term swings. The compounding is not as impressive as for Day Trading, but it is still better than with investing. Since the trades are done over several days, there's no need to do them at very specific times. They can prepared at night or on the weekend if that's when it's more adequate with the work schedule. It also means that you have more time to plan your trade and place all your money, not being limited by such a short time window.

Investing is the buy-and-hold method, where you buy stock and watch it for several months or years, or even just keeping it for dividends. Instead of focusing on short or medium terms, those trades focus on how corporate decisions, the markets they are in, news, etc. It is less based on numbers and more on knowledge of the stock. It requires very little time to do compared to the other two methods because of that.

There are also 3 markets on which the methods can be applied : stock market, currency market, and futures. The stock market is basically what we all think of when talking about trading, shares of publicly traded companies. Currency market is basically what it says as well, the exchange on foreign currencies and playing with the rate at which they trade. Finally, futures is a less known market of contracts for goods with an expiry date. It's a promise to buy/sell something at a fixed price at a fixed date. But, rather than keeping those contracts until expiry, you trade them. An example of a future contract would be a contract stating that oil will be bought on November 1st at 50$ the gallon.