+++
date = "2018-04-27T18:31:47-04:00"
title = "Open Discussion Goals"

+++
... only had meetings and haven't learned anything from any of them. The only interesting things I thought about at some point was relatively to how a group conversation evolves and how it can be worked in a direction or another.

One of the meeting was an open discussion on a subject and there seemed to have been a definite goal from the person calling the meeting. However, the meeting couldn't start by pointing at that goal because the goal seemed to somehow be that something organic appear. During the meeting, the person calling the meeting only asked questions and wanted honest answers and tried to point the meeting in a specific direction with the question. Quite often he had to formulate the question twice just to move the answers toward another direction.

That's the concept of switchtracking right there in action. The people answering were not in the same conversation than the person asking the question. It lead to strange discussion that lasted nearly 3 hours. There was a disconnect between two realities also contributing to the switchtracking, since the people asking the questions and the people answering them were seeing the same situation from very different angles (managers vs programmers). The only way to bridge the gap and make the conversation move forward was to voluntary dismiss some facts and take for granted that they did not exist (let's assume we don't have a technical debt, etc.).

I'm wondering how different it could have been had I not been feeling like I described yesterday. Many answers were actually matching what I said yesterday while the answers that were looked for were ideas on how to fix the situations and create a much more grandiose future. They don't go well together and it made for a slow progress. In retrospect, it's interesting just for how a conversation can go very far. How close to the original goal did the meeting end? Did it end up being farther than at the beginning of the meeting? How can something involving open discussion points to a definite direction?