+++
date = "2018-03-30T19:12:54+00:00"
title = "Standing Desk"

+++
... didn't do much on the learning side of things. One thing I did is trying a standing desk for the first time. I asked for a standing desk a couple of times and they eventually got some shared among colleagues. I never got around to try it yet but today, I decided to give it a shot and setup myself for about 2 hours on one, and it was interesting.

First thing first. The goal of a standing desk is among other things to have a good posture. So, you need the screens at the right height, the keyboard and mouse at the right height, and the right distance from the body. Same as with a sitting desk really. The thing you don't think about with a sitting desk is the feet. It doesn't take long to feel the weight on the feet when you don't wear shoes. So, instead of keeping my weight on them statically, I was moving a bit. Also, I noticed that naturally I would put all my weight on my left leg and bend my right knee a bit on the side, which isn't really good.

Another aspect I wasn't expecting is the shoulders. They actually started to hurt a bit. I believe I'm so used to keeping them inward that standing straight brought some tensions in there. I had to move quite a bit and take a lot of breaks from it to not feel pain. Nevertheless, I liked the experience and it's making me think about getting one for myself. With a standing desk setup, I could easily work all day without putting my posture at risk. A good chair helps but I don't really have one right now, and even so, I tend to hold my head with my hands, elbow on the desk, while thinking, which always puts me in a bad posture. Another thing I could try for the posture is to get one of those balls you can sit on while working.

Imagine, having a good ergonomic chair when sitting, an adjustable standing desk to work upright, and a ball to work the core. With all three, I could end up working my posture while working, and slowly improving it all without having to stop working. Sure it won't replace a yoga session, but it won't hurt as much and I still gotta work 8 hours a day anyway. I think that's how I should build my ideal office once I have one. This way, I could stay shard while working.