+++
date = "2018-04-06T17:23:38+00:00"
draft = true
title = "TBD"

+++
... read the Mind Palace chapter of [Moonwalking With Einstein](https://www.amazon.com/Moonwalking-Einstein-Science-Remembering-Everything/dp/0143120530/ref=as_sl_pc_qf_sp_asin_til?tag=grochat-20&linkCode=w00&linkId=ed04a2458b6b056f6788ee21e5ceb646&creativeASIN=0143120530) by Joshua Foer. In this chapter, they explain the basic technique behind memory champions and memory competition, why that technique works, and runs through a first example of how to use it. I was able to memorize a list of 15 unrelated items simply by following the chapter.

The first thing they explain in the chapter is why our memory works the way it works. It has to do with evolution and how human used to survive in this world. The first men were hunters, we all know that already. But to be good hunters, human had to remember areas, surroundings, places. They had to remember where they lived, where the animals were, how to get from point A to point B. They only had to remember a handful of names to get by, but had to remember many places. From an evolutionary stand point, we never had to remember a lot of names, numbers, dates, etc.

The mind palace concepts uses that to its advantage. To prove that we are good with places, ask how much we can remember from a place after spending only 5 minutes in it. Say you enter someone's house and you can walk around for 5 minutes. From that, you'll remember how each room is linked to the others, all the different locations, the exits, the windows location, etc. It won't become so distorted that the rooms don't make sens or some are forgotten. The mind palace uses places like that to put memories in. It can be any thing, a path you often take in the street or the house you grew in.

Once you have the place, what you need to do is walk through the mind palace and place memories here and there. The thing though is the brain is also good at remembering unusual things. For instance, trying to remember lemon by simply imagining a lemon on a table won't create a strong memory. By instead imagining a lemonade stand, as well as the taste and smell of lemon, the memory will be much less easy to forget and there will be more neurons linked to that memory.

They also explain that there are two things that we can imagine that are much easier to remember: humoristic and erotic stuff. The brain works much more to remember those situations. One example of how to remember things is given with cottage cheese. They said to imagine a pool filled with cottage cheese with Claudia Shiffer swimming in it. For pickled garlic, they said to imagine the taste and smell while being in the drive way. For six bottles of white wine, they said to imagine the six bottles of different white wine grapes talking on the couch, with very specific conversations going between specific varietal wine.