+++
date = "2018-01-16T17:36:50+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Humor"

+++
... listened to the [Humor ](https://www.npr.org/2015/12/08/458307977/how-what-makes-you-laugh-and-cringe-reveals-your-hidden-biases)episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, the evolutionary anthropologist Robert Lynch helps clarifying why and when do we laugh at jokes.

In a [research he conducted](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/248821811_It%27s_funny_because_we_think_it%27s_true_laughter_is_augmented_by_implicit_preferences), he measured who laughed at jokes about men, women and wage gaps. Before he did so, he gave the participant an implicit association test. Then, he video taped their facial expression as they were watching a 30 minutes video of Bill Burr. He noticed that people with a more traditional gender attitude laughed more at the wage discrepancy jokes.

He explains this result with evolution; laugh is an indication of what's in our heads. When two people laugh at the same jokes, they implicit communicate that they think the same things. He also points out that a big part of humor is about taboo subjects, and that the laugh are a way to communicate what we are not ready to even admit to ourselves, what may not be socially acceptable to speak. He resumes it to be a coded message saying "are you part of my group?"

That actually makes a lot of sens. When you are alone, are you laughing the same way you do when surrounded by others? Don't we say laughing is contagious? When you watch a stand up comic that you don't really enjoy, isn't he saying things you can't relate to deep down? When instead you watch a stand up comic that you really enjoy, aren't most of the jokes relatable?