+++
date = "2018-05-01T20:36:36-04:00"
title = "Tool"

+++
... spent another night listening to Tool. Yesterday I spent a good deal of time listening to the latest album of A Perfect Circle. Both are with the signer Maynard James Keenan. He's a very versatile signer that writes impressive and deep lyrics. To show an example of that, there's the song Lateralus where the lyrics are following the Fibonacci sequences with the syllable counts. It's the kind of constructs you wouldn't expect from any song, but it's something that makes Tool so incredible.

Another very interesting song is 46 & 2, which basically talks about the concept of the next evolutionary step. 46 is how many chromosomes we have. Adding 2 would be the next step. All throughout the song they talk about the concept of Shadow, which is an unconscious aspect of the personality. It was described as the dark side of the personality by Carl Jung. Throughout the song, they talk about the shadow getting out, with parts about shedding skins, basically a morphing to the new form, 46 & 2 (44 & 2 being the current state, 44 autosome and 2 sex chromosomes).

The aspect of Tool that interested me the most initially wasn't the lyrics, and still is, the drum. Aside from stating whatever everyone else already says about them, it's just how well he fills the song. We can talk all about the time signatures and what not, but I really like how the drum clearly put emphasis on the right parts of the song. In some bands, the drummers feel like he's just there to give the beat for the rest of the band, like a metronome, while in some others it feels like all he wants is to show off how good he is. I've seen drummer state that the TesseracT drummer wasn't playing his stuff enough and focusing too much on giving more weight on the other instruments. But it's a band, and when all the instruments can work together to create something more than every single instrument can do by itself, it's amazing. That's a reason why I believe Slipknot is more interesting than some black metal, just because the drummer adds punch to some guitar and vocal parts, rather than doing an endless double kick that couldn't be less boring and sounding like white noise.

Nevertheless, I really appreciate what Maynard James Keenan does. He has a very great voice, and he doesn't sound the same between all the bands he's in, he doesn't talk about the same subjects, yet he always sounds amazing. The vocal of Tool and A Perfect Circle is clearly different in the performance, even more so when we listen to Puscifer, yet all the songs are from the same artist. Yes he has the same tonality, he's the same person, but the way it's performed clearly has a lot of differences, that cannot be denied.

So yeah, all that to say that once I listen to one song of Tool or YouTube or something, I end up listening to them for a while. They are still impressive and great, they are in-temporal, just like all great musics are.