+++
date = "2018-03-21T18:28:12+00:00"
draft = true
title = "Workplace Secrecy"

+++
... thought about secrecy in the workplace. Not the gossip kind of secrecy about people personal lives. The secrecy about what's going on, who's doing what, what's coming up next, the goals, etc. I believe on this end I fall under the Evolutionary-Teal perspective; I've never liked secrecy in the workplace and always say what I think we should do, what I'm working out, etc., openly. I haven't noticed much negative aspects from my behavior, but I've noticed negative aspect when I had to keep secrets. I'm a very honest person, I can hardly lie to someone, and I'd rather say nothing than lie when asked something, which usually answer the question.

The first negative aspect I seen from secrecy in the workplace is how it breeds a behavior of secrecy and gossiping. Whenever you learn a secret or become in the know of something, you can't just behave as if you didn't know. You end up wanting to know more because you're curious, and then you play the secrecy game. It's actually the same thing than with gossiping, just as bad, but with a work related subject. As much as you know it's a negative behavior, being curious is a very strong incentive to try to learn more, and it's hard to fight it. Also, once you are in the know, you become a resource for others in the know.

Another very negative aspect about secrecy in the workplace is how it's just the best tool to actually not know what's going on. We all know about Chinese whisper, yet we do exactly that with secrecy. Someone told someone something, but he must not tell, then someone else also knows about it and talks to you about it, but he doesn't say exactly the same thing. Different version of the same thing start to appear and spread. Ideas of where things are going, who's working on what, etc. Each person has its own interest and doesn't know the whole picture. How could an organization evolve through that? Why do we work this way? To not hurt someone feelings? To be able to push our ideas far enough before revealing them and it's too late for others to say they are against? To not build expectation of where we are truly heading when we don't know ourselves? I do not really see a good reason for that.

My experience so far tells me that whenever I can openly speak about my ideas or what I'm working on, I get insightful discussions with others, they bring additional data to the reflection, they get to think about it and create new ideas building on that. It makes it easier to try and evolve things to new heights, because everyone gets to see a common picture and work on a similar idea. Even better, no two people work on the exact same idea without knowing, or work on conflicting ideas.

I truly believe being transparent about what's going on is the way to go. An organization that is honest and truthful about things give a clear vision of what's happening, what should be focused, what to expect from the future. Everyone knows where they stand and where they can put efforts to make things better. It also breaks away the selfishness of doing our own things and building our own agendas. The only downside I see about that is people having a hard time handling all the information. For instance,  a difficult financial situation or an uncertain future might make people worry a lot and lose sleep. But I also believe it will allow some others to do something about it and make changes to fix that. Working in secrecy prevents those person from taking action when they could.