+++
date = "2018-02-16T20:26:48+00:00"
draft = true
title = "EVE Online Trading Metrics"

+++
... tried to better understand how to play the market game on EVE Online. I read many posts on the subject and also made my own reflections. In order to have it more clear, I will write down what I understand so far and key metrics I need to keep an eye on.

First of, there are multiple ways to do the Trading Game. The one I chose is referred to as "Station Trading". It means that I stay in the trading hub, buy low, sell high and make a profit. Other forms involve moving stocks between places which involves more time. The goal is to be able to bring it to a lucrative activity in the game for little time every day.

The station traders can be divided in different groups as well. There are the "0.01 Iskers", the "Day Traders", the "Week Traders", then traders planning in long terms with general trends and activities happening in the game, and finally the traders that set the trends. Each step means spending less time trading, but with a much higher initial investment.

The 0.01 Iskers spend most of their time updating trade orders for items with very high margin. Since there markets have very high margins, they have more competition and fight more to keep the buy orders the highest and their sell orders the lowest. This also means that their margins are slowly lowering as they are updating their orders.

The Day Traders don't spend as much time updating their orders, usually once a day, with items they know they can buy and sell during the same day or the one after and make a profit for it. Bigger volumes are better because it means less order updates to still buy/sell.

The Week Traders work the week trends. More players on the weekend means price fluctuate with that. Many players will sell what they crafted, looted, etc., on Sunday, and will buy ammunition or raw material on the Friday night. It's not entirely that but that's the kind of reflection that could be done.

The Long Term Traders will pay attention to the evolution of the items over a long period of time. An item could fall bellow average for several weeks and then come back, let's buy while it's low, keep it in the assets and sell back once it grows up again. They can also do that by making sure they have a lot of assets to sell when a big war occurs and players need their fittings and ammo right now, regardless of the price.

Lastly, the Trend Setters are those that take control of the market for several items. They know the volumes traded, they can control it all and set the price, lower the offer intentionally for a while to control the price, etc. Those are more difficult and more rare, but it did happen, items being controlled entirely by a single Alliance that made a lot of money from it.

Currently, I am still at the 0.01 Isker level, trying to diversify with week, day and long term. My goal is to be able to make 100M of profits per day, which means I'll need to find items where I can work that out more easily. It also means a lot of escrow and less cash sitting in the wallet. The whole week, I have over 95% of my value sitting in my wallet, not helping to create more value. The best profit I could make was just above 5M over a day, which is very low right now.

When looking for items to trade, I try to pay attention to the volume. It's the total amount traded every single day. If the volume traded daily is less than the amount of buy and sell orders currently on the market, it's not worth fighting over. The orders will be updated more often than they will sell, meaning the margin will be lowering constantly.

Another aspect to check is the median. When the median is closer to the max of the day, it means a lot of sell orders going through. When instead it is closer to the min of the day, it means a lot of buy orders going through. Lots of buy orders means fewer buyers, which also means a more difficult turnover.

The max and min are also worth checking. Indeed, they need to be appart enough to be able to make a profit. But another interesting aspect is when looking at the current sell and buy orders, and at the max and min. Every order above the max and below the min are unlikely to be filled, and shows an unhealthy item. It is unlikely that putting a buy order slightly above will be any more successful. So I try to aim for items that have orders on the max and min, not above or below.

The trend over several months is also very useful. Some items that drop way lower than expected are interesting venture (maybe they won't go back ever, but it's worth trying). Also, items that are way above are a risk, even more so if the buy orders are above the sell orders of a few months ago (maybe it won't go down but other items might be better trades).

Lastly, one very important thing that is difficult to do only with the game is keeping track of the buy and sell prices of each individual items. I currently use [Eve Trade Master](https://www.evetrademaster.com/v2/) to keep track of that for me. It helps keeping track of the margin I truly make with all my items and can easily show me the daily profits.