+++
date = "2018-03-20T17:27:33+00:00"
title = "Data Liabilities"

+++
... discussed and thought about the implication of confidential data in an application. By that, I do not mean like should we encrypt credit card numbers and hash passwords. I mean, what burden it puts on the people maintaining and developing such application, and how could it be built to protect employees.

For instance, say a business has credit card numbers. They are encrypted with a key so the application can get the number back in some context and then use it to perform a purchase. Someone has access to that key, and that someone most likely also has access to the application server. When a credit card number is stolen, whether that person did something or not, he's a potential suspect because he could have had access to that credit card number in some way. Even if that person realizes that he can be a suspect whenever something happens, asking to no longer have access to either the key or the application server doesn't make him less a suspect, he could have taken the information before and kept it for life.

When an employer gives access to an employee to his production server, he makes sure he can trust the employee with the responsibility and the data. He makes sure he won't be someone that will do such a crime. It's a trust building process and slowly, the employer gives more responsibility to the employee as as he proves himself trustworthy. But that validation is never made the other way around. If the employer is not respecting high security standards, he makes his employees potential suspects for anything that could happen with the data he holds, and that liability can't be removed. Giving access to data in such circumstances is a lack of respect from the employer, even though the employee is trustworthy. The business is not protecting its employees, only its users and itself.

How could an employee never be in a situation where he could be held liable? After all, we need the key to unlock those secrets, and we often need access to maintain the systems in question, so in the end, we can always have access to the data. Could a third party be included? For instance, the private keys would never be kept by a company but instead by a third party, and that third party is being paid to protect users and employees from the business itself? Still, two people from each organization could become friends and trade those secrets. Also, no business would trust a third party to stay up at all time. What happens if that third party is actually not secure, or loses data? Every encrypted data would be lost with the keys.

Maybe a zero access production server could be built. Only software could access the server, only committed scripts could be ran, only software would hold the keys and those wouldn't be reachable other than by scripts. That kind of server could be built, but would require a lot of effort and be at risk in the event of something breaking down and no one having access. It still sound like the most interesting method. This way, the employees aren't put at risk by the employer, neither are the users. The only way to access data would be through APIs using the users authentication methods, and the only way to access the server would be through code committed. This way, no trace would be lost and no one would be liable.