+++
date = "2018-02-23T20:07:48+00:00"
title = "Implicit Association Test"

+++
... listened to the [In The Air We Breathe](https://www.npr.org/2017/06/05/531578107/the-thumbprint-of-the-culture-implicit-bias-and-police-shootings) episode of the Hidden Brain podcast. In this episode, they explore implicit bias on a community scale.

A test was devised in the 90s to know whether a bias exist, Implicit Association Test. The concept is very simple and rely on the participants speed are sorting through things. Take a deck of card and split the diamond and hearth on one side, the spade and clover on the other. Measure the time it takes to sort the deck. Do the same thing but this time, sort the hearth and clover on one side, the spade and diamond on the other. Measure again. It usually takes nearly twice as much time to sort the second way, because of how our brain does the red and black association.

We all heard Black Lives Matter and seen the recent issues regarding police shooting more black people. They used that test to measure whether a bias exist. They set a deck of cards with white faces, black faces, good words and bad words. When asked to sort the black faces with bad words, the white faces with good words, the time it took to sort the deck was faster than when asked to sort the black faces with good words, the white faces with bad words. That is the implicit bias. The test is available to do online and has been going on for a while. Some people did not believe the results were useful because they couldn't help predicting behaviors in situations such as a police arresting someone. But, since the test had been going on for a while and there was a lot of data, someone decided to map the results of the test with the proportion of black being shot by police force and they found a correlation.

The thing is, the test didn't measure the policemen, it measured the population in general, the volunteers who did the test, yet the results were giving information about the behavior of policemen. It basically measured the community biases. This kind of biases has been observed for a while. You can search for children asked to tell which of the black and white doll is more this or that. They are kids of about 5 years old, they only reflect what they perceived from the community surrounding them, they aren't doing a judgement of their own. Another method used a similar method, a video game measuring response time. Black and white characters would appear on the screen, some with guns and weapons, some with cell phones and other things in their hand. The participants had to shoot the armed characters and not shoot the unarmed. That game had the same results than the IAT.